World English Bible (WEB), 2020 stable text edition, 66-book protocanon (engwebp).
Source: https://ebible.org/engwebp/ -- retrieved 2026-09-07.
License: Public Domain. eBible.org holds "World English Bible" as a trademark; altered text
must not be called the World English Bible. Text below is unaltered WEB wording; only HTML
markup, cross-reference notes and footnote markers were removed and verses re-laid one per line.

Passage id format used across this target: "WEB <Book> <chapter>:<verse>".


=== WEB Gen 1 ===

WEB Gen 1:1  In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.
WEB Gen 1:2  The earth was formless and empty. Darkness was on the surface of the deep and God’s Spirit was hovering over the surface of the waters.
WEB Gen 1:3  God said, “Let there be light,” and there was light.
WEB Gen 1:4  God saw the light, and saw that it was good. God divided the light from the darkness.
WEB Gen 1:5  God called the light “day”, and the darkness he called “night”. There was evening and there was morning, the first day.
WEB Gen 1:6  God said, “Let there be an expanse in the middle of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.”
WEB Gen 1:7  God made the expanse, and divided the waters which were under the expanse from the waters which were above the expanse; and it was so.
WEB Gen 1:8  God called the expanse “sky”. There was evening and there was morning, a second day.
WEB Gen 1:9  God said, “Let the waters under the sky be gathered together to one place, and let the dry land appear;” and it was so.
WEB Gen 1:10  God called the dry land “earth”, and the gathering together of the waters he called “seas”. God saw that it was good.
WEB Gen 1:11  God said, “Let the earth yield grass, herbs yielding seeds, and fruit trees bearing fruit after their kind, with their seeds in it, on the earth;” and it was so.
WEB Gen 1:12  The earth yielded grass, herbs yielding seed after their kind, and trees bearing fruit, with their seeds in it, after their kind; and God saw that it was good.
WEB Gen 1:13  There was evening and there was morning, a third day.
WEB Gen 1:14  God said, “Let there be lights in the expanse of the sky to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs to mark seasons, days, and years;
WEB Gen 1:15  and let them be for lights in the expanse of the sky to give light on the earth;” and it was so.
WEB Gen 1:16  God made the two great lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night. He also made the stars.
WEB Gen 1:17  God set them in the expanse of the sky to give light to the earth,
WEB Gen 1:18  and to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness. God saw that it was good.
WEB Gen 1:19  There was evening and there was morning, a fourth day.
WEB Gen 1:20  God said, “Let the waters abound with living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth in the open expanse of the sky.”
WEB Gen 1:21  God created the large sea creatures and every living creature that moves, with which the waters swarmed, after their kind, and every winged bird after its kind. God saw that it was good.
WEB Gen 1:22  God blessed them, saying, “Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth.”
WEB Gen 1:23  There was evening and there was morning, a fifth day.
WEB Gen 1:24  God said, “Let the earth produce living creatures after their kind, livestock, creeping things, and animals of the earth after their kind;” and it was so.
WEB Gen 1:25  God made the animals of the earth after their kind, and the livestock after their kind, and everything that creeps on the ground after its kind. God saw that it was good.
WEB Gen 1:26  God said, “Let’s make man in our image, after our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the sky, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth.”
WEB Gen 1:27  God created man in his own image. In God’s image he created him; male and female he created them.
WEB Gen 1:28  God blessed them. God said to them, “Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the sky, and over every living thing that moves on the earth.”
WEB Gen 1:29  God said, “Behold, I have given you every herb yielding seed, which is on the surface of all the earth, and every tree, which bears fruit yielding seed. It will be your food.
WEB Gen 1:30  To every animal of the earth, and to every bird of the sky, and to everything that creeps on the earth, in which there is life, I have given every green herb for food;” and it was so.
WEB Gen 1:31  God saw everything that he had made, and, behold, it was very good. There was evening and there was morning, a sixth day.

=== WEB Ex 20 ===

WEB Ex 20:1  God spoke all these words, saying,
WEB Ex 20:2  “I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
WEB Ex 20:3  “You shall have no other gods before me.
WEB Ex 20:4  “You shall not make for yourselves an idol, nor any image of anything that is in the heavens above, or that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:
WEB Ex 20:5  you shall not bow yourself down to them, nor serve them, for I, the LORD your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, on the third and on the fourth generation of those who hate me,
WEB Ex 20:6  and showing loving kindness to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.
WEB Ex 20:7  “You shall not misuse the name of the LORD your God, for the LORD will not hold him guiltless who misuses his name.
WEB Ex 20:8  “Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy.
WEB Ex 20:9  You shall labor six days, and do all your work,
WEB Ex 20:10  but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the LORD your God. You shall not do any work in it, you, nor your son, nor your daughter, your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your livestock, nor your stranger who is within your gates;
WEB Ex 20:11  for in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day; therefore the LORD blessed the Sabbath day, and made it holy.
WEB Ex 20:12  “Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land which the LORD your God gives you.
WEB Ex 20:13  “You shall not murder.
WEB Ex 20:14  “You shall not commit adultery.
WEB Ex 20:15  “You shall not steal.
WEB Ex 20:16  “You shall not give false testimony against your neighbor.
WEB Ex 20:17  “You shall not covet your neighbor’s house. You shall not covet your neighbor’s wife, nor his male servant, nor his female servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor’s.”
WEB Ex 20:18  All the people perceived the thunderings, the lightnings, the sound of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking. When the people saw it, they trembled, and stayed at a distance.
WEB Ex 20:19  They said to Moses, “Speak with us yourself, and we will listen; but don’t let God speak with us, lest we die.”
WEB Ex 20:20  Moses said to the people, “Don’t be afraid, for God has come to test you, and that his fear may be before you, that you won’t sin.”
WEB Ex 20:21  The people stayed at a distance, and Moses came near to the thick darkness where God was.
WEB Ex 20:22  The LORD said to Moses, “This is what you shall tell the children of Israel: ‘You yourselves have seen that I have talked with you from heaven.
WEB Ex 20:23  You shall most certainly not make gods of silver or gods of gold for yourselves to be alongside me.
WEB Ex 20:24  You shall make an altar of earth for me, and shall sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your cattle. In every place where I record my name I will come to you and I will bless you.
WEB Ex 20:25  If you make me an altar of stone, you shall not build it of cut stones; for if you lift up your tool on it, you have polluted it.
WEB Ex 20:26  You shall not go up by steps to my altar, that your nakedness may not be exposed to it.’

=== WEB Lev 19 ===

WEB Lev 19:1  The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
WEB Lev 19:2  “Speak to all the congregation of the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘You shall be holy; for I, the LORD your God, am holy.
WEB Lev 19:3  “ ‘Each one of you shall respect his mother and his father. You shall keep my Sabbaths. I am the LORD your God.
WEB Lev 19:4  “ ‘Don’t turn to idols, nor make molten gods for yourselves. I am the LORD your God.
WEB Lev 19:5  “ ‘When you offer a sacrifice of peace offerings to the LORD, you shall offer it so that you may be accepted.
WEB Lev 19:6  It shall be eaten the same day you offer it, and on the next day. If anything remains until the third day, it shall be burned with fire.
WEB Lev 19:7  If it is eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination. It will not be accepted;
WEB Lev 19:8  but everyone who eats it shall bear his iniquity, because he has profaned the holy thing of the LORD, and that soul shall be cut off from his people.
WEB Lev 19:9  “ ‘When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field, neither shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest.
WEB Lev 19:10  You shall not glean your vineyard, neither shall you gather the fallen grapes of your vineyard. You shall leave them for the poor and for the foreigner. I am the LORD your God.
WEB Lev 19:11  “ ‘You shall not steal. “ ‘You shall not lie. “ ‘You shall not deceive one another.
WEB Lev 19:12  “ ‘You shall not swear by my name falsely, and profane the name of your God. I am the LORD.
WEB Lev 19:13  “ ‘You shall not oppress your neighbor, nor rob him. “ ‘The wages of a hired servant shall not remain with you all night until the morning.
WEB Lev 19:14  “ ‘You shall not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling block before the blind; but you shall fear your God. I am the LORD.
WEB Lev 19:15  “ ‘You shall do no injustice in judgment. You shall not be partial to the poor, nor show favoritism to the great; but you shall judge your neighbor in righteousness.
WEB Lev 19:16  “ ‘You shall not go around as a slanderer among your people. “ ‘You shall not endanger the life of your neighbor. I am the LORD.
WEB Lev 19:17  “ ‘You shall not hate your brother in your heart. You shall surely rebuke your neighbor, and not bear sin because of him.
WEB Lev 19:18  “ ‘You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people; but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the LORD.
WEB Lev 19:19  “ ‘You shall keep my statutes. “ ‘You shall not cross-breed different kinds of animals. “ ‘You shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed; “ ‘Don’t wear a garment made of two kinds of material.
WEB Lev 19:20  “ ‘If a man lies carnally with a woman who is a slave girl, pledged to be married to another man, and not ransomed or given her freedom; they shall be punished. They shall not be put to death, because she was not free.
WEB Lev 19:21  He shall bring his trespass offering to the LORD, to the door of the Tent of Meeting, even a ram for a trespass offering.
WEB Lev 19:22  The priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering before the LORD for his sin which he has committed; and the sin which he has committed shall be forgiven him.
WEB Lev 19:23  “ ‘When you come into the land, and have planted all kinds of trees for food, then you shall count their fruit as forbidden. For three years it shall be forbidden to you. It shall not be eaten.
WEB Lev 19:24  But in the fourth year all its fruit shall be holy, for giving praise to the LORD.
WEB Lev 19:25  In the fifth year you shall eat its fruit, that it may yield its increase to you. I am the LORD your God.
WEB Lev 19:26  “ ‘You shall not eat any meat with the blood still in it. You shall not use enchantments, nor practice sorcery.
WEB Lev 19:27  “ ‘You shall not cut the hair on the sides of your head or clip off the edge of your beard.
WEB Lev 19:28  “ ‘You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor tattoo any marks on you. I am the LORD.
WEB Lev 19:29  “ ‘Don’t profane your daughter, to make her a prostitute; lest the land fall to prostitution, and the land become full of wickedness.
WEB Lev 19:30  “ ‘You shall keep my Sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary; I am the LORD.
WEB Lev 19:31  “ ‘Don’t turn to those who are mediums, nor to the wizards. Don’t seek them out, to be defiled by them. I am the LORD your God.
WEB Lev 19:32  “ ‘You shall rise up before the gray head and honor the face of the elderly; and you shall fear your God. I am the LORD.
WEB Lev 19:33  “ ‘If a stranger lives as a foreigner with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong.
WEB Lev 19:34  The stranger who lives as a foreigner with you shall be to you as the native-born among you, and you shall love him as yourself; for you lived as foreigners in the land of Egypt. I am the LORD your God.
WEB Lev 19:35  “ ‘You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity.
WEB Lev 19:36  You shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin. I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
WEB Lev 19:37  “ ‘You shall observe all my statutes and all my ordinances, and do them. I am the LORD.’ ”

=== WEB Dt 5 ===

WEB Dt 5:1  Moses called to all Israel, and said to them, “Hear, Israel, the statutes and the ordinances which I speak in your ears today, that you may learn them, and observe to do them.”
WEB Dt 5:2  The LORD our God made a covenant with us in Horeb.
WEB Dt 5:3  The LORD didn’t make this covenant with our fathers, but with us, even us, who are all of us here alive today.
WEB Dt 5:4  The LORD spoke with you face to face on the mountain out of the middle of the fire,
WEB Dt 5:5  (I stood between the LORD and you at that time, to show you the LORD’s word; for you were afraid because of the fire, and didn’t go up onto the mountain) saying,
WEB Dt 5:6  “I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
WEB Dt 5:7  “You shall have no other gods before me.
WEB Dt 5:8  “You shall not make a carved image for yourself—any likeness of what is in heaven above, or what is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth.
WEB Dt 5:9  You shall not bow yourself down to them, nor serve them, for I, the LORD your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and on the third and on the fourth generation of those who hate me
WEB Dt 5:10  and showing loving kindness to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.
WEB Dt 5:11  “You shall not misuse the name of the LORD your God; for the LORD will not hold him guiltless who misuses his name.
WEB Dt 5:12  “Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, as the LORD your God commanded you.
WEB Dt 5:13  You shall labor six days, and do all your work;
WEB Dt 5:14  but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the LORD your God, in which you shall not do any work—neither you, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your ox, nor your donkey, nor any of your livestock, nor your stranger who is within your gates; that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you.
WEB Dt 5:15  You shall remember that you were a servant in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God brought you out of there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm. Therefore the LORD your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day.
WEB Dt 5:16  “Honor your father and your mother, as the LORD your God commanded you, that your days may be long and that it may go well with you in the land which the LORD your God gives you.
WEB Dt 5:17  “You shall not murder.
WEB Dt 5:18  “You shall not commit adultery.
WEB Dt 5:19  “You shall not steal.
WEB Dt 5:20  “You shall not give false testimony against your neighbor.
WEB Dt 5:21  “You shall not covet your neighbor’s wife. Neither shall you desire your neighbor’s house, his field, or his male servant, or his female servant, his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor’s.”
WEB Dt 5:22  The LORD spoke these words to all your assembly on the mountain out of the middle of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a great voice. He added no more. He wrote them on two stone tablets, and gave them to me.
WEB Dt 5:23  When you heard the voice out of the middle of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, you came near to me, even all the heads of your tribes, and your elders;
WEB Dt 5:24  and you said, “Behold, the LORD our God has shown us his glory and his greatness, and we have heard his voice out of the middle of the fire. We have seen today that God does speak with man, and he lives.
WEB Dt 5:25  Now therefore, why should we die? For this great fire will consume us. If we hear the LORD our God’s voice any more, then we shall die.
WEB Dt 5:26  For who is there of all flesh who has heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the middle of the fire, as we have, and lived?
WEB Dt 5:27  Go near, and hear all that the LORD our God shall say, and tell us all that the LORD our God tells you; and we will hear it, and do it.”
WEB Dt 5:28  The LORD heard the voice of your words when you spoke to me; and the LORD said to me, “I have heard the voice of the words of this people which they have spoken to you. They have well said all that they have spoken.
WEB Dt 5:29  Oh that there were such a heart in them that they would fear me and keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them and with their children forever!
WEB Dt 5:30  “Go tell them, ‘Return to your tents.’
WEB Dt 5:31  But as for you, stand here by me, and I will tell you all the commandments, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which you shall teach them, that they may do them in the land which I give them to possess.”
WEB Dt 5:32  You shall observe to do therefore as the LORD your God has commanded you. You shall not turn away to the right hand or to the left.
WEB Dt 5:33  You shall walk in all the way which the LORD your God has commanded you, that you may live and that it may be well with you, and that you may prolong your days in the land which you shall possess.

=== WEB Mic 6 ===

WEB Mic 6:1  Listen now to what the LORD says: “Arise, plead your case before the mountains, and let the hills hear what you have to say.
WEB Mic 6:2  Hear, you mountains, the LORD’s indictment, and you enduring foundations of the earth; for the LORD has a case against his people, and he will contend with Israel.
WEB Mic 6:3  My people, what have I done to you? How have I burdened you? Answer me!
WEB Mic 6:4  For I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed you out of the house of bondage. I sent before you Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.
WEB Mic 6:5  My people, remember now what Balak king of Moab devised, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him from Shittim to Gilgal, that you may know the righteous acts of the LORD.”
WEB Mic 6:6  How shall I come before the LORD, and bow myself before the exalted God? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves a year old?
WEB Mic 6:7  Will the LORD be pleased with thousands of rams? With tens of thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my disobedience? The fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?
WEB Mic 6:8  He has shown you, O man, what is good. What does the LORD require of you, but to act justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God?
WEB Mic 6:9  The LORD’s voice calls to the city— and wisdom fears your name— “Listen to the rod, and he who appointed it.
WEB Mic 6:10  Are there yet treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and a short ephah that is accursed?
WEB Mic 6:11  Shall I tolerate dishonest scales, and a bag of deceitful weights?
WEB Mic 6:12  Her rich men are full of violence, her inhabitants speak lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their speech.
WEB Mic 6:13  Therefore I also have struck you with a grievous wound. I have made you desolate because of your sins.
WEB Mic 6:14  You shall eat, but not be satisfied. Your hunger will be within you. You will store up, but not save, and that which you save I will give up to the sword.
WEB Mic 6:15  You will sow, but won’t reap. You will tread the olives, but won’t anoint yourself with oil; and crush grapes, but won’t drink the wine.
WEB Mic 6:16  For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of Ahab’s house. You walk in their counsels, that I may make you a ruin, and your inhabitants a hissing. You will bear the reproach of my people.”

=== WEB Mt 5 ===

WEB Mt 5:1  Seeing the multitudes, he went up onto the mountain. When he had sat down, his disciples came to him.
WEB Mt 5:2  He opened his mouth and taught them, saying,
WEB Mt 5:3  “Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven.
WEB Mt 5:4  Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.
WEB Mt 5:5  Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth.
WEB Mt 5:6  Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled.
WEB Mt 5:7  Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy.
WEB Mt 5:8  Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.
WEB Mt 5:9  Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called children of God.
WEB Mt 5:10  Blessed are those who have been persecuted for righteousness’ sake, for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven.
WEB Mt 5:11  “Blessed are you when people reproach you, persecute you, and say all kinds of evil against you falsely, for my sake.
WEB Mt 5:12  Rejoice, and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For that is how they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
WEB Mt 5:13  “You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt has lost its flavor, with what will it be salted? It is then good for nothing, but to be cast out and trodden under the feet of men.
WEB Mt 5:14  “You are the light of the world. A city located on a hill can’t be hidden.
WEB Mt 5:15  Neither do you light a lamp and put it under a measuring basket, but on a stand; and it shines to all who are in the house.
WEB Mt 5:16  Even so, let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven.
WEB Mt 5:17  “Don’t think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I didn’t come to destroy, but to fulfill.
WEB Mt 5:18  For most certainly, I tell you, until heaven and earth pass away, not even one smallest letter or one tiny pen stroke shall in any way pass away from the law, until all things are accomplished.
WEB Mt 5:19  Therefore, whoever shall break one of these least commandments and teach others to do so, shall be called least in the Kingdom of Heaven; but whoever shall do and teach them shall be called great in the Kingdom of Heaven.
WEB Mt 5:20  For I tell you that unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, there is no way you will enter into the Kingdom of Heaven.
WEB Mt 5:21  “You have heard that it was said to the ancient ones, ‘You shall not murder;’ and ‘Whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment.’
WEB Mt 5:22  But I tell you that everyone who is angry with his brother without a cause will be in danger of the judgment. Whoever says to his brother, ‘Raca!’ will be in danger of the council. Whoever says, ‘You fool!’ will be in danger of the fire of Gehenna.
WEB Mt 5:23  “If therefore you are offering your gift at the altar, and there remember that your brother has anything against you,
WEB Mt 5:24  leave your gift there before the altar, and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.
WEB Mt 5:25  Agree with your adversary quickly while you are with him on the way; lest perhaps the prosecutor deliver you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and you be cast into prison.
WEB Mt 5:26  Most certainly I tell you, you shall by no means get out of there until you have paid the last penny.
WEB Mt 5:27  “You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall not commit adultery;’
WEB Mt 5:28  but I tell you that everyone who gazes at a woman to lust after her has committed adultery with her already in his heart.
WEB Mt 5:29  If your right eye causes you to stumble, pluck it out and throw it away from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members should perish than for your whole body to be cast into Gehenna.
WEB Mt 5:30  If your right hand causes you to stumble, cut it off, and throw it away from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members should perish, than for your whole body to be cast into Gehenna.
WEB Mt 5:31  “It was also said, ‘Whoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorce,’
WEB Mt 5:32  but I tell you that whoever puts away his wife, except for the cause of sexual immorality, makes her an adulteress; and whoever marries her when she is put away commits adultery.
WEB Mt 5:33  “Again you have heard that it was said to the ancient ones, ‘You shall not make false vows, but shall perform to the Lord your vows,’
WEB Mt 5:34  but I tell you, don’t swear at all: neither by heaven, for it is the throne of God;
WEB Mt 5:35  nor by the earth, for it is the footstool of his feet; nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King.
WEB Mt 5:36  Neither shall you swear by your head, for you can’t make one hair white or black.
WEB Mt 5:37  But let your ‘Yes’ be ‘Yes’ and your ‘No’ be ‘No.’ Whatever is more than these is of the evil one.
WEB Mt 5:38  “You have heard that it was said, ‘An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.’
WEB Mt 5:39  But I tell you, don’t resist him who is evil; but whoever strikes you on your right cheek, turn to him the other also.
WEB Mt 5:40  If anyone sues you to take away your coat, let him have your cloak also.
WEB Mt 5:41  Whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him two.
WEB Mt 5:42  Give to him who asks you, and don’t turn away him who desires to borrow from you.
WEB Mt 5:43  “You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’
WEB Mt 5:44  But I tell you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who mistreat you and persecute you,
WEB Mt 5:45  that you may be children of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the just and the unjust.
WEB Mt 5:46  For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Don’t even the tax collectors do the same?
WEB Mt 5:47  If you only greet your friends, what more do you do than others? Don’t even the tax collectors do the same?
WEB Mt 5:48  Therefore you shall be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect.

=== WEB Mt 6 ===

WEB Mt 6:1  “Be careful that you don’t do your charitable giving before men, to be seen by them, or else you have no reward from your Father who is in heaven.
WEB Mt 6:2  Therefore, when you do merciful deeds, don’t sound a trumpet before yourself, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may get glory from men. Most certainly I tell you, they have received their reward.
WEB Mt 6:3  But when you do merciful deeds, don’t let your left hand know what your right hand does,
WEB Mt 6:4  so that your merciful deeds may be in secret, then your Father who sees in secret will reward you openly.
WEB Mt 6:5  “When you pray, you shall not be as the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. Most certainly, I tell you, they have received their reward.
WEB Mt 6:6  But you, when you pray, enter into your inner room, and having shut your door, pray to your Father who is in secret; and your Father who sees in secret will reward you openly.
WEB Mt 6:7  In praying, don’t use vain repetitions as the Gentiles do; for they think that they will be heard for their much speaking.
WEB Mt 6:8  Therefore don’t be like them, for your Father knows what things you need before you ask him.
WEB Mt 6:9  Pray like this: “ ‘Our Father in heaven, may your name be kept holy.
WEB Mt 6:10  Let your Kingdom come. Let your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
WEB Mt 6:11  Give us today our daily bread.
WEB Mt 6:12  Forgive us our debts, as we also forgive our debtors.
WEB Mt 6:13  Bring us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the Kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen.’
WEB Mt 6:14  “For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.
WEB Mt 6:15  But if you don’t forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
WEB Mt 6:16  “Moreover when you fast, don’t be like the hypocrites, with sad faces. For they disfigure their faces that they may be seen by men to be fasting. Most certainly I tell you, they have received their reward.
WEB Mt 6:17  But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face,
WEB Mt 6:18  so that you are not seen by men to be fasting, but by your Father who is in secret; and your Father, who sees in secret, will reward you.
WEB Mt 6:19  “Don’t lay up treasures for yourselves on the earth, where moth and rust consume, and where thieves break through and steal;
WEB Mt 6:20  but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consume, and where thieves don’t break through and steal;
WEB Mt 6:21  for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
WEB Mt 6:22  “The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is sound, your whole body will be full of light.
WEB Mt 6:23  But if your eye is evil, your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in you is darkness, how great is the darkness!
WEB Mt 6:24  “No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be devoted to one and despise the other. You can’t serve both God and Mammon.
WEB Mt 6:25  Therefore I tell you, don’t be anxious for your life: what you will eat, or what you will drink; nor yet for your body, what you will wear. Isn’t life more than food, and the body more than clothing?
WEB Mt 6:26  See the birds of the sky, that they don’t sow, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns. Your heavenly Father feeds them. Aren’t you of much more value than they?
WEB Mt 6:27  “Which of you by being anxious, can add one moment to his lifespan?
WEB Mt 6:28  Why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They don’t toil, neither do they spin,
WEB Mt 6:29  yet I tell you that even Solomon in all his glory was not dressed like one of these.
WEB Mt 6:30  But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today exists and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, won’t he much more clothe you, you of little faith?
WEB Mt 6:31  “Therefore don’t be anxious, saying, ‘What will we eat?’, ‘What will we drink?’ or, ‘With what will we be clothed?’
WEB Mt 6:32  For the Gentiles seek after all these things; for your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things.
WEB Mt 6:33  But seek first God’s Kingdom and his righteousness; and all these things will be given to you as well.
WEB Mt 6:34  Therefore don’t be anxious for tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Each day’s own evil is sufficient.

=== WEB Mt 7 ===

WEB Mt 7:1  “Don’t judge, so that you won’t be judged.
WEB Mt 7:2  For with whatever judgment you judge, you will be judged; and with whatever measure you measure, it will be measured to you.
WEB Mt 7:3  Why do you see the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but don’t consider the beam that is in your own eye?
WEB Mt 7:4  Or how will you tell your brother, ‘Let me remove the speck from your eye,’ and behold, the beam is in your own eye?
WEB Mt 7:5  You hypocrite! First remove the beam out of your own eye, and then you can see clearly to remove the speck out of your brother’s eye.
WEB Mt 7:6  “Don’t give that which is holy to the dogs, neither throw your pearls before the pigs, lest perhaps they trample them under their feet, and turn and tear you to pieces.
WEB Mt 7:7  “Ask, and it will be given you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened for you.
WEB Mt 7:8  For everyone who asks receives. He who seeks finds. To him who knocks it will be opened.
WEB Mt 7:9  Or who is there among you who, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone?
WEB Mt 7:10  Or if he asks for a fish, who will give him a serpent?
WEB Mt 7:11  If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him!
WEB Mt 7:12  Therefore, whatever you desire for men to do to you, you shall also do to them; for this is the law and the prophets.
WEB Mt 7:13  “Enter in by the narrow gate; for the gate is wide and the way is broad that leads to destruction, and there are many who enter in by it.
WEB Mt 7:14  How narrow is the gate and the way is restricted that leads to life! There are few who find it.
WEB Mt 7:15  “Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly are ravening wolves.
WEB Mt 7:16  By their fruits you will know them. Do you gather grapes from thorns or figs from thistles?
WEB Mt 7:17  Even so, every good tree produces good fruit, but the corrupt tree produces evil fruit.
WEB Mt 7:18  A good tree can’t produce evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree produce good fruit.
WEB Mt 7:19  Every tree that doesn’t grow good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
WEB Mt 7:20  Therefore by their fruits you will know them.
WEB Mt 7:21  “Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter into the Kingdom of Heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
WEB Mt 7:22  Many will tell me in that day, ‘Lord, Lord, didn’t we prophesy in your name, in your name cast out demons, and in your name do many mighty works?’
WEB Mt 7:23  Then I will tell them, ‘I never knew you. Depart from me, you who work iniquity.’
WEB Mt 7:24  “Everyone therefore who hears these words of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock.
WEB Mt 7:25  The rain came down, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house; and it didn’t fall, for it was founded on the rock.
WEB Mt 7:26  Everyone who hears these words of mine and doesn’t do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand.
WEB Mt 7:27  The rain came down, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house; and it fell—and its fall was great.”
WEB Mt 7:28  When Jesus had finished saying these things, the multitudes were astonished at his teaching,
WEB Mt 7:29  for he taught them with authority, and not like the scribes.

=== WEB Mt 18 ===

WEB Mt 18:1  In that hour the disciples came to Jesus, saying, “Who then is greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven?”
WEB Mt 18:2  Jesus called a little child to himself, and set him in the middle of them
WEB Mt 18:3  and said, “Most certainly I tell you, unless you turn and become as little children, you will in no way enter into the Kingdom of Heaven.
WEB Mt 18:4  Whoever therefore humbles himself as this little child is the greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven.
WEB Mt 18:5  Whoever receives one such little child in my name receives me,
WEB Mt 18:6  but whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better for him if a huge millstone were hung around his neck and that he were sunk in the depths of the sea.
WEB Mt 18:7  “Woe to the world because of occasions of stumbling! For it must be that the occasions come, but woe to that person through whom the occasion comes!
WEB Mt 18:8  If your hand or your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off and cast it from you. It is better for you to enter into life maimed or crippled, rather than having two hands or two feet to be cast into the eternal fire.
WEB Mt 18:9  If your eye causes you to stumble, pluck it out and cast it from you. It is better for you to enter into life with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into the Gehenna of fire.
WEB Mt 18:10  See that you don’t despise one of these little ones, for I tell you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in heaven.
WEB Mt 18:11  For the Son of Man came to save that which was lost.
WEB Mt 18:12  “What do you think? If a man has one hundred sheep, and one of them goes astray, doesn’t he leave the ninety-nine, go to the mountains, and seek that which has gone astray?
WEB Mt 18:13  If he finds it, most certainly I tell you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine which have not gone astray.
WEB Mt 18:14  Even so it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
WEB Mt 18:15  “If your brother sins against you, go, show him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained back your brother.
WEB Mt 18:16  But if he doesn’t listen, take one or two more with you, that at the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established.
WEB Mt 18:17  If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the assembly. If he refuses to hear the assembly also, let him be to you as a Gentile or a tax collector.
WEB Mt 18:18  Most certainly I tell you, whatever things you bind on earth will have been bound in heaven, and whatever things you release on earth will have been released in heaven.
WEB Mt 18:19  Again, assuredly I tell you, that if two of you will agree on earth concerning anything that they will ask, it will be done for them by my Father who is in heaven.
WEB Mt 18:20  For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there I am in the middle of them.”
WEB Mt 18:21  Then Peter came and said to him, “Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Until seven times?”
WEB Mt 18:22  Jesus said to him, “I don’t tell you until seven times, but, until seventy times seven.
WEB Mt 18:23  Therefore the Kingdom of Heaven is like a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants.
WEB Mt 18:24  When he had begun to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents.
WEB Mt 18:25  But because he couldn’t pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, with his wife, his children, and all that he had, and payment to be made.
WEB Mt 18:26  The servant therefore fell down and knelt before him, saying, ‘Lord, have patience with me, and I will repay you all!’
WEB Mt 18:27  The lord of that servant, being moved with compassion, released him and forgave him the debt.
WEB Mt 18:28  “But that servant went out and found one of his fellow servants who owed him one hundred denarii, and he grabbed him and took him by the throat, saying, ‘Pay me what you owe!’
WEB Mt 18:29  “So his fellow servant fell down at his feet and begged him, saying, ‘Have patience with me, and I will repay you!’
WEB Mt 18:30  He would not, but went and cast him into prison until he should pay back that which was due.
WEB Mt 18:31  So when his fellow servants saw what was done, they were exceedingly sorry, and came and told their lord all that was done.
WEB Mt 18:32  Then his lord called him in and said to him, ‘You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt because you begged me.
WEB Mt 18:33  Shouldn’t you also have had mercy on your fellow servant, even as I had mercy on you?’
WEB Mt 18:34  His lord was angry, and delivered him to the tormentors until he should pay all that was due to him.
WEB Mt 18:35  So my heavenly Father will also do to you, if you don’t each forgive your brother from your hearts for his misdeeds.”

=== WEB Mt 22 ===

WEB Mt 22:1  Jesus answered and spoke to them again in parables, saying,
WEB Mt 22:2  “The Kingdom of Heaven is like a certain king, who made a wedding feast for his son,
WEB Mt 22:3  and sent out his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding feast, but they would not come.
WEB Mt 22:4  Again he sent out other servants, saying, ‘Tell those who are invited, “Behold, I have prepared my dinner. My cattle and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready. Come to the wedding feast!” ’
WEB Mt 22:5  But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his own farm, another to his merchandise;
WEB Mt 22:6  and the rest grabbed his servants, treated them shamefully, and killed them.
WEB Mt 22:7  When the king heard that, he was angry, and sent his armies, destroyed those murderers, and burned their city.
WEB Mt 22:8  “Then he said to his servants, ‘The wedding is ready, but those who were invited weren’t worthy.
WEB Mt 22:9  Go therefore to the intersections of the highways, and as many as you may find, invite to the wedding feast.’
WEB Mt 22:10  Those servants went out into the highways and gathered together as many as they found, both bad and good. The wedding was filled with guests.
WEB Mt 22:11  “But when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there a man who didn’t have on wedding clothing,
WEB Mt 22:12  and he said to him, ‘Friend, how did you come in here not wearing wedding clothing?’ He was speechless.
WEB Mt 22:13  Then the king said to the servants, ‘Bind him hand and foot, take him away, and throw him into the outer darkness. That is where the weeping and grinding of teeth will be.’
WEB Mt 22:14  For many are called, but few chosen.”
WEB Mt 22:15  Then the Pharisees went and took counsel how they might entrap him in his talk.
WEB Mt 22:16  They sent their disciples to him, along with the Herodians, saying, “Teacher, we know that you are honest, and teach the way of God in truth, no matter whom you teach; for you aren’t partial to anyone.
WEB Mt 22:17  Tell us therefore, what do you think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?”
WEB Mt 22:18  But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, “Why do you test me, you hypocrites?
WEB Mt 22:19  Show me the tax money.” They brought to him a denarius.
WEB Mt 22:20  He asked them, “Whose is this image and inscription?”
WEB Mt 22:21  They said to him, “Caesar’s.” Then he said to them, “Give therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.”
WEB Mt 22:22  When they heard it, they marveled, and left him and went away.
WEB Mt 22:23  On that day Sadducees (those who say that there is no resurrection) came to him. They asked him,
WEB Mt 22:24  saying, “Teacher, Moses said, ‘If a man dies, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife and raise up offspring for his brother.’
WEB Mt 22:25  Now there were with us seven brothers. The first married and died, and having no offspring left his wife to his brother.
WEB Mt 22:26  In the same way, the second also, and the third, to the seventh.
WEB Mt 22:27  After them all, the woman died.
WEB Mt 22:28  In the resurrection therefore, whose wife will she be of the seven? For they all had her.”
WEB Mt 22:29  But Jesus answered them, “You are mistaken, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God.
WEB Mt 22:30  For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like God’s angels in heaven.
WEB Mt 22:31  But concerning the resurrection of the dead, haven’t you read that which was spoken to you by God, saying,
WEB Mt 22:32  ‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living.”
WEB Mt 22:33  When the multitudes heard it, they were astonished at his teaching.
WEB Mt 22:34  But the Pharisees, when they heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, gathered themselves together.
WEB Mt 22:35  One of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, testing him.
WEB Mt 22:36  “Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the law?”
WEB Mt 22:37  Jesus said to him, “ ‘You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.’
WEB Mt 22:38  This is the first and great commandment.
WEB Mt 22:39  A second likewise is this, ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’
WEB Mt 22:40  The whole law and the prophets depend on these two commandments.”
WEB Mt 22:41  Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question,
WEB Mt 22:42  saying, “What do you think of the Christ? Whose son is he?” They said to him, “Of David.”
WEB Mt 22:43  He said to them, “How then does David in the Spirit call him Lord, saying,
WEB Mt 22:44  ‘The Lord said to my Lord, sit on my right hand, until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet’?
WEB Mt 22:45  “If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son?”
WEB Mt 22:46  No one was able to answer him a word, neither did any man dare ask him any more questions from that day forward.

=== WEB Mt 25 ===

WEB Mt 25:1  “Then the Kingdom of Heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom.
WEB Mt 25:2  Five of them were foolish, and five were wise.
WEB Mt 25:3  Those who were foolish, when they took their lamps, took no oil with them,
WEB Mt 25:4  but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
WEB Mt 25:5  Now while the bridegroom delayed, they all slumbered and slept.
WEB Mt 25:6  But at midnight there was a cry, ‘Behold! The bridegroom is coming! Come out to meet him!’
WEB Mt 25:7  Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.
WEB Mt 25:8  The foolish said to the wise, ‘Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.’
WEB Mt 25:9  But the wise answered, saying, ‘What if there isn’t enough for us and you? You go rather to those who sell, and buy for yourselves.’
WEB Mt 25:10  While they went away to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding feast, and the door was shut.
WEB Mt 25:11  Afterward the other virgins also came, saying, ‘Lord, Lord, open to us.’
WEB Mt 25:12  But he answered, ‘Most certainly I tell you, I don’t know you.’
WEB Mt 25:13  Watch therefore, for you don’t know the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming.
WEB Mt 25:14  “For it is like a man going into another country, who called his own servants and entrusted his goods to them.
WEB Mt 25:15  To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one, to each according to his own ability. Then he went on his journey.
WEB Mt 25:16  Immediately he who received the five talents went and traded with them, and made another five talents.
WEB Mt 25:17  In the same way, he also who got the two gained another two.
WEB Mt 25:18  But he who received the one talent went away and dug in the earth and hid his lord’s money.
WEB Mt 25:19  “Now after a long time the lord of those servants came, and settled accounts with them.
WEB Mt 25:20  He who received the five talents came and brought another five talents, saying, ‘Lord, you delivered to me five talents. Behold, I have gained another five talents in addition to them.’
WEB Mt 25:21  “His lord said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things, I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.’
WEB Mt 25:22  “He also who got the two talents came and said, ‘Lord, you delivered to me two talents. Behold, I have gained another two talents in addition to them.’
WEB Mt 25:23  “His lord said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things. I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.’
WEB Mt 25:24  “He also who had received the one talent came and said, ‘Lord, I knew you that you are a hard man, reaping where you didn’t sow, and gathering where you didn’t scatter.
WEB Mt 25:25  I was afraid, and went away and hid your talent in the earth. Behold, you have what is yours.’
WEB Mt 25:26  “But his lord answered him, ‘You wicked and slothful servant. You knew that I reap where I didn’t sow, and gather where I didn’t scatter.
WEB Mt 25:27  You ought therefore to have deposited my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received back my own with interest.
WEB Mt 25:28  Take away therefore the talent from him and give it to him who has the ten talents.
WEB Mt 25:29  For to everyone who has will be given, and he will have abundance, but from him who doesn’t have, even that which he has will be taken away.
WEB Mt 25:30  Throw out the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’
WEB Mt 25:31  “But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory.
WEB Mt 25:32  Before him all the nations will be gathered, and he will separate them one from another, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
WEB Mt 25:33  He will set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.
WEB Mt 25:34  Then the King will tell those on his right hand, ‘Come, blessed of my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world;
WEB Mt 25:35  for I was hungry and you gave me food to eat. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you took me in.
WEB Mt 25:36  I was naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came to me.’
WEB Mt 25:37  “Then the righteous will answer him, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you a drink?
WEB Mt 25:38  When did we see you as a stranger and take you in, or naked and clothe you?
WEB Mt 25:39  When did we see you sick or in prison and come to you?’
WEB Mt 25:40  “The King will answer them, ‘Most certainly I tell you, because you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.’
WEB Mt 25:41  Then he will say also to those on the left hand, ‘Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire which is prepared for the devil and his angels;
WEB Mt 25:42  for I was hungry, and you didn’t give me food to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave me no drink;
WEB Mt 25:43  I was a stranger, and you didn’t take me in; naked, and you didn’t clothe me; sick, and in prison, and you didn’t visit me.’
WEB Mt 25:44  “Then they will also answer, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and didn’t help you?’
WEB Mt 25:45  “Then he will answer them, saying, ‘Most certainly I tell you, because you didn’t do it to one of the least of these, you didn’t do it to me.’
WEB Mt 25:46  These will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.”

=== WEB Lk 6 ===

WEB Lk 6:1  Now on the second Sabbath after the first, he was going through the grain fields. His disciples plucked the heads of grain and ate, rubbing them in their hands.
WEB Lk 6:2  But some of the Pharisees said to them, “Why do you do that which is not lawful to do on the Sabbath day?”
WEB Lk 6:3  Jesus, answering them, said, “Haven’t you read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him,
WEB Lk 6:4  how he entered into God’s house, and took and ate the show bread, and gave also to those who were with him, which is not lawful to eat except for the priests alone?”
WEB Lk 6:5  He said to them, “The Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath.”
WEB Lk 6:6  It also happened on another Sabbath that he entered into the synagogue and taught. There was a man there, and his right hand was withered.
WEB Lk 6:7  The scribes and the Pharisees watched him, to see whether he would heal on the Sabbath, that they might find an accusation against him.
WEB Lk 6:8  But he knew their thoughts; and he said to the man who had the withered hand, “Rise up and stand in the middle.” He arose and stood.
WEB Lk 6:9  Then Jesus said to them, “I will ask you something: Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good, or to do harm? To save a life, or to kill?”
WEB Lk 6:10  He looked around at them all, and said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He did, and his hand was restored as sound as the other.
WEB Lk 6:11  But they were filled with rage, and talked with one another about what they might do to Jesus.
WEB Lk 6:12  In these days, he went out to the mountain to pray, and he continued all night in prayer to God.
WEB Lk 6:13  When it was day, he called his disciples, and from them he chose twelve, whom he also named apostles:
WEB Lk 6:14  Simon, whom he also named Peter; Andrew, his brother; James; John; Philip; Bartholomew;
WEB Lk 6:15  Matthew; Thomas; James the son of Alphaeus; Simon who was called the Zealot;
WEB Lk 6:16  Judas the son of James; and Judas Iscariot, who also became a traitor.
WEB Lk 6:17  He came down with them and stood on a level place, with a crowd of his disciples and a great number of the people from all Judea and Jerusalem and the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear him and to be healed of their diseases,
WEB Lk 6:18  as well as those who were troubled by unclean spirits; and they were being healed.
WEB Lk 6:19  All the multitude sought to touch him, for power came out of him and healed them all.
WEB Lk 6:20  He lifted up his eyes to his disciples, and said: “Blessed are you who are poor, for God’s Kingdom is yours.
WEB Lk 6:21  Blessed are you who hunger now, for you will be filled. Blessed are you who weep now, for you will laugh.
WEB Lk 6:22  Blessed are you when men hate you, and when they exclude and mock you, and throw out your name as evil, for the Son of Man’s sake.
WEB Lk 6:23  Rejoice in that day and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven, for their fathers did the same thing to the prophets.
WEB Lk 6:24  “But woe to you who are rich! For you have received your consolation.
WEB Lk 6:25  Woe to you, you who are full now, for you will be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, for you will mourn and weep.
WEB Lk 6:26  Woe, when men speak well of you, for their fathers did the same thing to the false prophets.
WEB Lk 6:27  “But I tell you who hear: love your enemies, do good to those who hate you,
WEB Lk 6:28  bless those who curse you, and pray for those who mistreat you.
WEB Lk 6:29  To him who strikes you on the cheek, offer also the other; and from him who takes away your cloak, don’t withhold your coat also.
WEB Lk 6:30  Give to everyone who asks you, and don’t ask him who takes away your goods to give them back again.
WEB Lk 6:31  “As you would like people to do to you, do exactly so to them.
WEB Lk 6:32  “If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them.
WEB Lk 6:33  If you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same.
WEB Lk 6:34  If you lend to those from whom you hope to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, to receive back as much.
WEB Lk 6:35  But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing back; and your reward will be great, and you will be children of the Most High; for he is kind toward the unthankful and evil.
WEB Lk 6:36  “Therefore be merciful, even as your Father is also merciful.
WEB Lk 6:37  Don’t judge, and you won’t be judged. Don’t condemn, and you won’t be condemned. Set free, and you will be set free.
WEB Lk 6:38  “Give, and it will be given to you: good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, will be given to you. For with the same measure you measure it will be measured back to you.”
WEB Lk 6:39  He spoke a parable to them. “Can the blind guide the blind? Won’t they both fall into a pit?
WEB Lk 6:40  A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone when he is fully trained will be like his teacher.
WEB Lk 6:41  Why do you see the speck of chaff that is in your brother’s eye, but don’t consider the beam that is in your own eye?
WEB Lk 6:42  Or how can you tell your brother, ‘Brother, let me remove the speck of chaff that is in your eye,’ when you yourself don’t see the beam that is in your own eye? You hypocrite! First remove the beam from your own eye, and then you can see clearly to remove the speck of chaff that is in your brother’s eye.
WEB Lk 6:43  “For there is no good tree that produces rotten fruit, nor again a rotten tree that produces good fruit.
WEB Lk 6:44  For each tree is known by its own fruit. For people don’t gather figs from thorns, nor do they gather grapes from a bramble bush.
WEB Lk 6:45  The good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings out that which is good, and the evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart brings out that which is evil, for out of the abundance of the heart, his mouth speaks.
WEB Lk 6:46  “Why do you call me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ and don’t do the things which I say?
WEB Lk 6:47  Everyone who comes to me, and hears my words and does them, I will show you who he is like.
WEB Lk 6:48  He is like a man building a house, who dug and went deep and laid a foundation on the rock. When a flood arose, the stream broke against that house, and could not shake it, because it was founded on the rock.
WEB Lk 6:49  But he who hears and doesn’t do, is like a man who built a house on the earth without a foundation, against which the stream broke, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that house was great.”

=== WEB Lk 10 ===

WEB Lk 10:1  Now after these things, the Lord also appointed seventy others, and sent them two by two ahead of him into every city and place where he was about to come.
WEB Lk 10:2  Then he said to them, “The harvest is indeed plentiful, but the laborers are few. Pray therefore to the Lord of the harvest, that he may send out laborers into his harvest.
WEB Lk 10:3  Go your ways. Behold, I send you out as lambs among wolves.
WEB Lk 10:4  Carry no purse, nor wallet, nor sandals. Greet no one on the way.
WEB Lk 10:5  Into whatever house you enter, first say, ‘Peace be to this house.’
WEB Lk 10:6  If a son of peace is there, your peace will rest on him; but if not, it will return to you.
WEB Lk 10:7  Remain in that same house, eating and drinking the things they give, for the laborer is worthy of his wages. Don’t go from house to house.
WEB Lk 10:8  Into whatever city you enter and they receive you, eat the things that are set before you.
WEB Lk 10:9  Heal the sick who are there and tell them, ‘God’s Kingdom has come near to you.’
WEB Lk 10:10  But into whatever city you enter and they don’t receive you, go out into its streets and say,
WEB Lk 10:11  ‘Even the dust from your city that clings to us, we wipe off against you. Nevertheless know this, that God’s Kingdom has come near to you.’
WEB Lk 10:12  I tell you, it will be more tolerable in that day for Sodom than for that city.
WEB Lk 10:13  “Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon which were done in you, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
WEB Lk 10:14  But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you.
WEB Lk 10:15  You, Capernaum, who are exalted to heaven, will be brought down to Hades.
WEB Lk 10:16  Whoever listens to you listens to me, and whoever rejects you rejects me. Whoever rejects me rejects him who sent me.”
WEB Lk 10:17  The seventy returned with joy, saying, “Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name!”
WEB Lk 10:18  He said to them, “I saw Satan having fallen like lightning from heaven.
WEB Lk 10:19  Behold, I give you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy. Nothing will in any way hurt you.
WEB Lk 10:20  Nevertheless, don’t rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.”
WEB Lk 10:21  In that same hour, Jesus rejoiced in the Holy Spirit, and said, “I thank you, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding, and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for so it was well-pleasing in your sight.”
WEB Lk 10:22  Turning to the disciples, he said, “All things have been delivered to me by my Father. No one knows who the Son is, except the Father, and who the Father is, except the Son, and he to whomever the Son desires to reveal him.”
WEB Lk 10:23  Turning to the disciples, he said privately, “Blessed are the eyes which see the things that you see,
WEB Lk 10:24  for I tell you that many prophets and kings desired to see the things which you see, and didn’t see them, and to hear the things which you hear, and didn’t hear them.”
WEB Lk 10:25  Behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tested him, saying, “Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?”
WEB Lk 10:26  He said to him, “What is written in the law? How do you read it?”
WEB Lk 10:27  He answered, “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind; and your neighbor as yourself.”
WEB Lk 10:28  He said to him, “You have answered correctly. Do this, and you will live.”
WEB Lk 10:29  But he, desiring to justify himself, asked Jesus, “Who is my neighbor?”
WEB Lk 10:30  Jesus answered, “A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who both stripped him and beat him, and departed, leaving him half dead.
WEB Lk 10:31  By chance a certain priest was going down that way. When he saw him, he passed by on the other side.
WEB Lk 10:32  In the same way a Levite also, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side.
WEB Lk 10:33  But a certain Samaritan, as he traveled, came where he was. When he saw him, he was moved with compassion,
WEB Lk 10:34  came to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. He set him on his own animal, brought him to an inn, and took care of him.
WEB Lk 10:35  On the next day, when he departed, he took out two denarii, gave them to the host, and said to him, ‘Take care of him. Whatever you spend beyond that, I will repay you when I return.’
WEB Lk 10:36  Now which of these three do you think seemed to be a neighbor to him who fell among the robbers?”
WEB Lk 10:37  He said, “He who showed mercy on him.” Then Jesus said to him, “Go and do likewise.”
WEB Lk 10:38  As they went on their way, he entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house.
WEB Lk 10:39  She had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus’ feet and heard his word.
WEB Lk 10:40  But Martha was distracted with much serving, and she came up to him, and said, “Lord, don’t you care that my sister left me to serve alone? Ask her therefore to help me.”
WEB Lk 10:41  Jesus answered her, “Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things,
WEB Lk 10:42  but one thing is needed. Mary has chosen the good part, which will not be taken away from her.”

=== WEB Lk 12 ===

WEB Lk 12:1  Meanwhile, when a multitude of many thousands had gathered together, so much so that they trampled on each other, he began to tell his disciples first of all, “Beware of the yeast of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
WEB Lk 12:2  But there is nothing covered up that will not be revealed, nor hidden that will not be known.
WEB Lk 12:3  Therefore whatever you have said in the darkness will be heard in the light. What you have spoken in the ear in the inner rooms will be proclaimed on the housetops.
WEB Lk 12:4  “I tell you, my friends, don’t be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do.
WEB Lk 12:5  But I will warn you whom you should fear. Fear him who after he has killed, has power to cast into Gehenna. Yes, I tell you, fear him.
WEB Lk 12:6  “Aren’t five sparrows sold for two assaria coins ? Not one of them is forgotten by God.
WEB Lk 12:7  But the very hairs of your head are all counted. Therefore don’t be afraid. You are of more value than many sparrows.
WEB Lk 12:8  “I tell you, everyone who confesses me before men, the Son of Man will also confess before the angels of God;
WEB Lk 12:9  but he who denies me in the presence of men will be denied in the presence of God’s angels.
WEB Lk 12:10  Everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but those who blaspheme against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
WEB Lk 12:11  When they bring you before the synagogues, the rulers, and the authorities, don’t be anxious how or what you will answer or what you will say;
WEB Lk 12:12  for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that same hour what you must say.”
WEB Lk 12:13  One of the multitude said to him, “Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.”
WEB Lk 12:14  But he said to him, “Man, who made me a judge or an arbitrator over you?”
WEB Lk 12:15  He said to them, “Beware! Keep yourselves from covetousness, for a man’s life doesn’t consist of the abundance of the things which he possesses.”
WEB Lk 12:16  He spoke a parable to them, saying, “The ground of a certain rich man produced abundantly.
WEB Lk 12:17  He reasoned within himself, saying, ‘What will I do, because I don’t have room to store my crops?’
WEB Lk 12:18  He said, ‘This is what I will do. I will pull down my barns, build bigger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods.
WEB Lk 12:19  I will tell my soul, “Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry.” ’
WEB Lk 12:20  “But God said to him, ‘You foolish one, tonight your soul is required of you. The things which you have prepared—whose will they be?’
WEB Lk 12:21  So is he who lays up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.”
WEB Lk 12:22  He said to his disciples, “Therefore I tell you, don’t be anxious for your life, what you will eat, nor yet for your body, what you will wear.
WEB Lk 12:23  Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothing.
WEB Lk 12:24  Consider the ravens: they don’t sow, they don’t reap, they have no warehouse or barn, and God feeds them. How much more valuable are you than birds!
WEB Lk 12:25  Which of you by being anxious can add a cubit to his height?
WEB Lk 12:26  If then you aren’t able to do even the least things, why are you anxious about the rest?
WEB Lk 12:27  Consider the lilies, how they grow. They don’t toil, neither do they spin; yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
WEB Lk 12:28  But if this is how God clothes the grass in the field, which today exists and tomorrow is cast into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O you of little faith?
WEB Lk 12:29  “Don’t seek what you will eat or what you will drink; neither be anxious.
WEB Lk 12:30  For the nations of the world seek after all of these things, but your Father knows that you need these things.
WEB Lk 12:31  But seek God’s Kingdom, and all these things will be added to you.
WEB Lk 12:32  “Don’t be afraid, little flock, for it is your Father’s good pleasure to give you the Kingdom.
WEB Lk 12:33  Sell what you have and give gifts to the needy. Make for yourselves purses which don’t grow old, a treasure in the heavens that doesn’t fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys.
WEB Lk 12:34  For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
WEB Lk 12:35  “Let your waist be dressed and your lamps burning.
WEB Lk 12:36  Be like men watching for their lord when he returns from the wedding feast, that when he comes and knocks, they may immediately open to him.
WEB Lk 12:37  Blessed are those servants whom the lord will find watching when he comes. Most certainly I tell you that he will dress himself, make them recline, and will come and serve them.
WEB Lk 12:38  They will be blessed if he comes in the second or third watch and finds them so.
WEB Lk 12:39  But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would have watched and not allowed his house to be broken into.
WEB Lk 12:40  Therefore be ready also, for the Son of Man is coming in an hour that you don’t expect him.”
WEB Lk 12:41  Peter said to him, “Lord, are you telling this parable to us, or to everybody?”
WEB Lk 12:42  The Lord said, “Who then is the faithful and wise steward, whom his lord will set over his household, to give them their portion of food at the right times?
WEB Lk 12:43  Blessed is that servant whom his lord will find doing so when he comes.
WEB Lk 12:44  Truly I tell you that he will set him over all that he has.
WEB Lk 12:45  But if that servant says in his heart, ‘My lord delays his coming,’ and begins to beat the menservants and the maidservants, and to eat and drink and to be drunken,
WEB Lk 12:46  then the lord of that servant will come in a day when he isn’t expecting him and in an hour that he doesn’t know, and will cut him in two, and place his portion with the unfaithful.
WEB Lk 12:47  That servant who knew his lord’s will, and didn’t prepare nor do what he wanted, will be beaten with many stripes,
WEB Lk 12:48  but he who didn’t know, and did things worthy of stripes, will be beaten with few stripes. To whomever much is given, of him will much be required; and to whom much was entrusted, of him more will be asked.
WEB Lk 12:49  “I came to throw fire on the earth. I wish it were already kindled.
WEB Lk 12:50  But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how distressed I am until it is accomplished!
WEB Lk 12:51  Do you think that I have come to give peace on the earth? I tell you, no, but rather division.
WEB Lk 12:52  For from now on, there will be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three.
WEB Lk 12:53  They will be divided, father against son, and son against father; mother against daughter, and daughter against her mother; mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.”
WEB Lk 12:54  He said to the multitudes also, “When you see a cloud rising from the west, immediately you say, ‘A shower is coming,’ and so it happens.
WEB Lk 12:55  When a south wind blows, you say, ‘There will be a scorching heat,’ and it happens.
WEB Lk 12:56  You hypocrites! You know how to interpret the appearance of the earth and the sky, but how is it that you don’t interpret this time?
WEB Lk 12:57  “Why don’t you judge for yourselves what is right?
WEB Lk 12:58  For when you are going with your adversary before the magistrate, try diligently on the way to be released from him, lest perhaps he drag you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and the officer throw you into prison.
WEB Lk 12:59  I tell you, you will by no means get out of there until you have paid the very last penny. ”

=== WEB Lk 16 ===

WEB Lk 16:1  He also said to his disciples, “There was a certain rich man who had a manager. An accusation was made to him that this man was wasting his possessions.
WEB Lk 16:2  He called him, and said to him, ‘What is this that I hear about you? Give an accounting of your management, for you can no longer be manager.’
WEB Lk 16:3  “The manager said within himself, ‘What will I do, seeing that my lord is taking away the management position from me? I don’t have strength to dig. I am ashamed to beg.
WEB Lk 16:4  I know what I will do, so that when I am removed from management, they may receive me into their houses.’
WEB Lk 16:5  Calling each one of his lord’s debtors to him, he said to the first, ‘How much do you owe to my lord?’
WEB Lk 16:6  He said, ‘A hundred batos of oil.’ He said to him, ‘Take your bill, and sit down quickly and write fifty.’
WEB Lk 16:7  Then he said to another, ‘How much do you owe?’ He said, ‘A hundred cors of wheat.’ He said to him, ‘Take your bill, and write eighty.’
WEB Lk 16:8  “His lord commended the dishonest manager because he had done wisely, for the children of this world are, in their own generation, wiser than the children of the light.
WEB Lk 16:9  I tell you, make for yourselves friends by means of unrighteous mammon, so that when you fail, they may receive you into the eternal tents.
WEB Lk 16:10  He who is faithful in a very little is faithful also in much. He who is dishonest in a very little is also dishonest in much.
WEB Lk 16:11  If therefore you have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches?
WEB Lk 16:12  If you have not been faithful in that which is another’s, who will give you that which is your own?
WEB Lk 16:13  No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other; or else he will hold to one and despise the other. You aren’t able to serve God and Mammon.”
WEB Lk 16:14  The Pharisees, who were lovers of money, also heard all these things, and they scoffed at him.
WEB Lk 16:15  He said to them, “You are those who justify yourselves in the sight of men, but God knows your hearts. For that which is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God.
WEB Lk 16:16  “The law and the prophets were until John. From that time the Good News of God’s Kingdom is preached, and everyone is forcing his way into it.
WEB Lk 16:17  But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one tiny stroke of a pen in the law to fall.
WEB Lk 16:18  “Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery. He who marries one who is divorced from a husband commits adultery.
WEB Lk 16:19  “Now there was a certain rich man, and he was clothed in purple and fine linen, living in luxury every day.
WEB Lk 16:20  A certain beggar, named Lazarus, was taken to his gate, full of sores,
WEB Lk 16:21  and desiring to be fed with the crumbs that fell from the rich man’s table. Yes, even the dogs came and licked his sores.
WEB Lk 16:22  The beggar died, and he was carried away by the angels to Abraham’s bosom. The rich man also died and was buried.
WEB Lk 16:23  In Hades, he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and saw Abraham far off, and Lazarus at his bosom.
WEB Lk 16:24  He cried and said, ‘Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue! For I am in anguish in this flame.’
WEB Lk 16:25  “But Abraham said, ‘Son, remember that you, in your lifetime, received your good things, and Lazarus, in the same way, bad things. But here he is now comforted and you are in anguish.
WEB Lk 16:26  Besides all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed, that those who want to pass from here to you are not able, and that no one may cross over from there to us.’
WEB Lk 16:27  “He said, ‘I ask you therefore, father, that you would send him to my father’s house—
WEB Lk 16:28  for I have five brothers—that he may testify to them, so they won’t also come into this place of torment.’
WEB Lk 16:29  “But Abraham said to him, ‘They have Moses and the prophets. Let them listen to them.’
WEB Lk 16:30  “He said, ‘No, father Abraham, but if one goes to them from the dead, they will repent.’
WEB Lk 16:31  “He said to him, ‘If they don’t listen to Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded if one rises from the dead.’ ”

=== WEB Jn 13 ===

WEB Jn 13:1  Now before the feast of the Passover, Jesus, knowing that his time had come that he would depart from this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end.
WEB Jn 13:2  During supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, to betray him,
WEB Jn 13:3  Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he came from God and was going to God,
WEB Jn 13:4  arose from supper, and laid aside his outer garments. He took a towel and wrapped a towel around his waist.
WEB Jn 13:5  Then he poured water into the basin, and began to wash the disciples’ feet and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him.
WEB Jn 13:6  Then he came to Simon Peter. He said to him, “Lord, do you wash my feet?”
WEB Jn 13:7  Jesus answered him, “You don’t know what I am doing now, but you will understand later.”
WEB Jn 13:8  Peter said to him, “You will never wash my feet!” Jesus answered him, “If I don’t wash you, you have no part with me.”
WEB Jn 13:9  Simon Peter said to him, “Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head!”
WEB Jn 13:10  Jesus said to him, “Someone who has bathed only needs to have his feet washed, but is completely clean. You are clean, but not all of you.”
WEB Jn 13:11  For he knew him who would betray him; therefore he said, “You are not all clean.”
WEB Jn 13:12  So when he had washed their feet, put his outer garment back on, and sat down again, he said to them, “Do you know what I have done to you?
WEB Jn 13:13  You call me, ‘Teacher’ and ‘Lord.’ You say so correctly, for so I am.
WEB Jn 13:14  If I then, the Lord and the Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet.
WEB Jn 13:15  For I have given you an example, that you should also do as I have done to you.
WEB Jn 13:16  Most certainly I tell you, a servant is not greater than his lord, neither is one who is sent greater than he who sent him.
WEB Jn 13:17  If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.
WEB Jn 13:18  I don’t speak concerning all of you. I know whom I have chosen; but that the Scripture may be fulfilled, ‘He who eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me.’
WEB Jn 13:19  From now on, I tell you before it happens, that when it happens, you may believe that I am he.
WEB Jn 13:20  Most certainly I tell you, he who receives whomever I send, receives me; and he who receives me, receives him who sent me.”
WEB Jn 13:21  When Jesus had said this, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, “Most certainly I tell you that one of you will betray me.”
WEB Jn 13:22  The disciples looked at one another, perplexed about whom he spoke.
WEB Jn 13:23  One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was at the table, leaning against Jesus’ chest.
WEB Jn 13:24  Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, and said to him, “Tell us who it is of whom he speaks.”
WEB Jn 13:25  He, leaning back, as he was, on Jesus’ chest, asked him, “Lord, who is it?”
WEB Jn 13:26  Jesus therefore answered, “It is he to whom I will give this piece of bread when I have dipped it.” So when he had dipped the piece of bread, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot.
WEB Jn 13:27  After the piece of bread, then Satan entered into him. Then Jesus said to him, “What you do, do quickly.”
WEB Jn 13:28  Now nobody at the table knew why he said this to him.
WEB Jn 13:29  For some thought, because Judas had the money box, that Jesus said to him, “Buy what things we need for the feast,” or that he should give something to the poor.
WEB Jn 13:30  Therefore having received that morsel, he went out immediately. It was night.
WEB Jn 13:31  When he had gone out, Jesus said, “Now the Son of Man has been glorified, and God has been glorified in him.
WEB Jn 13:32  If God has been glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and he will glorify him immediately.
WEB Jn 13:33  Little children, I will be with you a little while longer. You will seek me, and as I said to the Jews, ‘Where I am going, you can’t come,’ so now I tell you.
WEB Jn 13:34  A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also love one another.
WEB Jn 13:35  By this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.”
WEB Jn 13:36  Simon Peter said to him, “Lord, where are you going?” Jesus answered, “Where I am going, you can’t follow now, but you will follow afterwards.”
WEB Jn 13:37  Peter said to him, “Lord, why can’t I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you.”
WEB Jn 13:38  Jesus answered him, “Will you lay down your life for me? Most certainly I tell you, the rooster won’t crow until you have denied me three times.

=== WEB Rom 12 ===

WEB Rom 12:1  Therefore I urge you, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service.
WEB Rom 12:2  Don’t be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what is the good, well-pleasing, and perfect will of God.
WEB Rom 12:3  For I say through the grace that was given me, to everyone who is among you, not to think of yourself more highly than you ought to think; but to think reasonably, as God has apportioned to each person a measure of faith.
WEB Rom 12:4  For even as we have many members in one body, and all the members don’t have the same function,
WEB Rom 12:5  so we, who are many, are one body in Christ, and individually members of one another,
WEB Rom 12:6  having gifts differing according to the grace that was given to us: if prophecy, let’s prophesy according to the proportion of our faith;
WEB Rom 12:7  or service, let’s give ourselves to service; or he who teaches, to his teaching;
WEB Rom 12:8  or he who exhorts, to his exhorting; he who gives, let him do it with generosity; he who rules, with diligence; he who shows mercy, with cheerfulness.
WEB Rom 12:9  Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor that which is evil. Cling to that which is good.
WEB Rom 12:10  In love of the brothers be tenderly affectionate to one another; in honor prefer one another,
WEB Rom 12:11  not lagging in diligence, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord,
WEB Rom 12:12  rejoicing in hope, enduring in troubles, continuing steadfastly in prayer,
WEB Rom 12:13  contributing to the needs of the saints, and given to hospitality.
WEB Rom 12:14  Bless those who persecute you; bless, and don’t curse.
WEB Rom 12:15  Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep.
WEB Rom 12:16  Be of the same mind one toward another. Don’t set your mind on high things, but associate with the humble. Don’t be wise in your own conceits.
WEB Rom 12:17  Repay no one evil for evil. Respect what is honorable in the sight of all men.
WEB Rom 12:18  If it is possible, as much as it is up to you, be at peace with all men.
WEB Rom 12:19  Don’t seek revenge yourselves, beloved, but give place to God’s wrath. For it is written, “Vengeance belongs to me; I will repay, says the Lord.”
WEB Rom 12:20  Therefore “If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him a drink; for in doing so, you will heap coals of fire on his head.”
WEB Rom 12:21  Don’t be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.

=== WEB Rom 13 ===

WEB Rom 13:1  Let every soul be in subjection to the higher authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those who exist are ordained by God.
WEB Rom 13:2  Therefore he who resists the authority withstands the ordinance of God; and those who withstand will receive to themselves judgment.
WEB Rom 13:3  For rulers are not a terror to the good work, but to the evil. Do you desire to have no fear of the authority? Do that which is good, and you will have praise from the authority,
WEB Rom 13:4  for he is a servant of God to you for good. But if you do that which is evil, be afraid, for he doesn’t bear the sword in vain; for he is a servant of God, an avenger for wrath to him who does evil.
WEB Rom 13:5  Therefore you need to be in subjection, not only because of the wrath, but also for conscience’ sake.
WEB Rom 13:6  For this reason you also pay taxes, for they are servants of God’s service, continually doing this very thing.
WEB Rom 13:7  Therefore give everyone what you owe: if you owe taxes, pay taxes; if customs, then customs; if respect, then respect; if honor, then honor.
WEB Rom 13:8  Owe no one anything, except to love one another; for he who loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law.
WEB Rom 13:9  For the commandments, “You shall not commit adultery,” “You shall not murder,” “You shall not steal,” “You shall not covet,” and whatever other commandments there are, are all summed up in this saying, namely, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”
WEB Rom 13:10  Love doesn’t harm a neighbor. Love therefore is the fulfillment of the law.
WEB Rom 13:11  Do this, knowing the time, that it is already time for you to awaken out of sleep, for salvation is now nearer to us than when we first believed.
WEB Rom 13:12  The night is far gone, and the day is near. Let’s therefore throw off the deeds of darkness, and let’s put on the armor of light.
WEB Rom 13:13  Let’s walk properly, as in the day; not in reveling and drunkenness, not in sexual promiscuity and lustful acts, and not in strife and jealousy.
WEB Rom 13:14  But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, for its lusts.

=== WEB Rom 14 ===

WEB Rom 14:1  Now accept one who is weak in faith, but not for disputes over opinions.
WEB Rom 14:2  One man has faith to eat all things, but he who is weak eats only vegetables.
WEB Rom 14:3  Don’t let him who eats despise him who doesn’t eat. Don’t let him who doesn’t eat judge him who eats, for God has accepted him.
WEB Rom 14:4  Who are you who judge another’s servant? To his own lord he stands or falls. Yes, he will be made to stand, for God has power to make him stand.
WEB Rom 14:5  One man esteems one day as more important. Another esteems every day alike. Let each man be fully assured in his own mind.
WEB Rom 14:6  He who observes the day, observes it to the Lord; and he who does not observe the day, to the Lord he does not observe it. He who eats, eats to the Lord, for he gives God thanks. He who doesn’t eat, to the Lord he doesn’t eat, and gives God thanks.
WEB Rom 14:7  For none of us lives to himself, and none dies to himself.
WEB Rom 14:8  For if we live, we live to the Lord. Or if we die, we die to the Lord. If therefore we live or die, we are the Lord’s.
WEB Rom 14:9  For to this end Christ died, rose, and lived again, that he might be Lord of both the dead and the living.
WEB Rom 14:10  But you, why do you judge your brother? Or you again, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of Christ.
WEB Rom 14:11  For it is written, “ ‘As I live,’ says the Lord, ‘to me every knee will bow. Every tongue will confess to God.’ ”
WEB Rom 14:12  So then each one of us will give account of himself to God.
WEB Rom 14:13  Therefore let’s not judge one another any more, but judge this rather, that no man put a stumbling block in his brother’s way, or an occasion for falling.
WEB Rom 14:14  I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean of itself; except that to him who considers anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean.
WEB Rom 14:15  Yet if because of food your brother is grieved, you walk no longer in love. Don’t destroy with your food him for whom Christ died.
WEB Rom 14:16  Then don’t let your good be slandered,
WEB Rom 14:17  for God’s Kingdom is not eating and drinking, but righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit.
WEB Rom 14:18  For he who serves Christ in these things is acceptable to God and approved by men.
WEB Rom 14:19  So then, let’s follow after things which make for peace, and things by which we may build one another up.
WEB Rom 14:20  Don’t overthrow God’s work for food’s sake. All things indeed are clean, however it is evil for that man who creates a stumbling block by eating.
WEB Rom 14:21  It is good to not eat meat, drink wine, nor do anything by which your brother stumbles, is offended, or is made weak.
WEB Rom 14:22  Do you have faith? Have it to yourself before God. Happy is he who doesn’t judge himself in that which he approves.
WEB Rom 14:23  But he who doubts is condemned if he eats, because it isn’t of faith; and whatever is not of faith is sin.
WEB Rom 14:24  Now to him who is able to establish you according to my Good News and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery which has been kept secret through long ages,
WEB Rom 14:25  but now is revealed, and by the Scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the eternal God, is made known for obedience of faith to all the nations;
WEB Rom 14:26  to the only wise God, through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever! Amen.

=== WEB 1 Cor 8 ===

WEB 1 Cor 8:1  Now concerning things sacrificed to idols: We know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up.
WEB 1 Cor 8:2  But if anyone thinks that he knows anything, he doesn’t yet know as he ought to know.
WEB 1 Cor 8:3  But anyone who loves God is known by him.
WEB 1 Cor 8:4  Therefore concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that no idol is anything in the world, and that there is no other God but one.
WEB 1 Cor 8:5  For though there are things that are called “gods”, whether in the heavens or on earth—as there are many “gods” and many “lords”—
WEB 1 Cor 8:6  yet to us there is one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we for him; and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and we live through him.
WEB 1 Cor 8:7  However, that knowledge isn’t in all men. But some, with consciousness of an idol until now, eat as of a thing sacrificed to an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled.
WEB 1 Cor 8:8  But food will not commend us to God. For neither, if we don’t eat are we the worse, nor if we eat are we the better.
WEB 1 Cor 8:9  But be careful that by no means does this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to the weak.
WEB 1 Cor 8:10  For if a man sees you who have knowledge sitting in an idol’s temple, won’t his conscience, if he is weak, be emboldened to eat things sacrificed to idols?
WEB 1 Cor 8:11  And through your knowledge, he who is weak perishes, the brother for whose sake Christ died.
WEB 1 Cor 8:12  Thus, sinning against the brothers, and wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ.
WEB 1 Cor 8:13  Therefore, if food causes my brother to stumble, I will eat no meat forever more, that I don’t cause my brother to stumble.

=== WEB 1 Cor 13 ===

WEB 1 Cor 13:1  If I speak with the languages of men and of angels, but don’t have love, I have become sounding brass or a clanging cymbal.
WEB 1 Cor 13:2  If I have the gift of prophecy, and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but don’t have love, I am nothing.
WEB 1 Cor 13:3  If I give away all my goods to feed the poor, and if I give my body to be burned, but don’t have love, it profits me nothing.
WEB 1 Cor 13:4  Love is patient and is kind. Love doesn’t envy. Love doesn’t brag, is not proud,
WEB 1 Cor 13:5  doesn’t behave itself inappropriately, doesn’t seek its own way, is not provoked, takes no account of evil;
WEB 1 Cor 13:6  doesn’t rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth;
WEB 1 Cor 13:7  bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, and endures all things.
WEB 1 Cor 13:8  Love never fails. But where there are prophecies, they will be done away with. Where there are various languages, they will cease. Where there is knowledge, it will be done away with.
WEB 1 Cor 13:9  For we know in part and we prophesy in part;
WEB 1 Cor 13:10  but when that which is complete has come, then that which is partial will be done away with.
WEB 1 Cor 13:11  When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I felt as a child, I thought as a child. Now that I have become a man, I have put away childish things.
WEB 1 Cor 13:12  For now we see in a mirror, dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I will know fully, even as I was also fully known.
WEB 1 Cor 13:13  But now faith, hope, and love remain—these three. The greatest of these is love.

=== WEB Gal 5 ===

WEB Gal 5:1  Stand firm therefore in the liberty by which Christ has made us free, and don’t be entangled again with a yoke of bondage.
WEB Gal 5:2  Behold, I, Paul, tell you that if you receive circumcision, Christ will profit you nothing.
WEB Gal 5:3  Yes, I testify again to every man who receives circumcision that he is a debtor to do the whole law.
WEB Gal 5:4  You are alienated from Christ, you who desire to be justified by the law. You have fallen away from grace.
WEB Gal 5:5  For we through the Spirit, by faith wait for the hope of righteousness.
WEB Gal 5:6  For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision amounts to anything, but faith working through love.
WEB Gal 5:7  You were running well! Who interfered with you that you should not obey the truth?
WEB Gal 5:8  This persuasion is not from him who calls you.
WEB Gal 5:9  A little yeast grows through the whole lump.
WEB Gal 5:10  I have confidence toward you in the Lord that you will think no other way. But he who troubles you will bear his judgment, whoever he is.
WEB Gal 5:11  But I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? Then the stumbling block of the cross has been removed.
WEB Gal 5:12  I wish that those who disturb you would cut themselves off.
WEB Gal 5:13  For you, brothers, were called for freedom. Only don’t use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love be servants to one another.
WEB Gal 5:14  For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in this: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”
WEB Gal 5:15  But if you bite and devour one another, be careful that you don’t consume one another.
WEB Gal 5:16  But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you won’t fulfill the lust of the flesh.
WEB Gal 5:17  For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; and these are contrary to one another, that you may not do the things that you desire.
WEB Gal 5:18  But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.
WEB Gal 5:19  Now the deeds of the flesh are obvious, which are: adultery, sexual immorality, uncleanness, lustfulness,
WEB Gal 5:20  idolatry, sorcery, hatred, strife, jealousies, outbursts of anger, rivalries, divisions, heresies,
WEB Gal 5:21  envy, murders, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these; of which I forewarn you, even as I also forewarned you, that those who practice such things will not inherit God’s Kingdom.
WEB Gal 5:22  But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faith,
WEB Gal 5:23  gentleness, and self-control. Against such things there is no law.
WEB Gal 5:24  Those who belong to Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and lusts.
WEB Gal 5:25  If we live by the Spirit, let’s also walk by the Spirit.
WEB Gal 5:26  Let’s not become conceited, provoking one another, and envying one another.

=== WEB Gal 6 ===

WEB Gal 6:1  Brothers, even if a man is caught in some fault, you who are spiritual must restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness, looking to yourself so that you also aren’t tempted.
WEB Gal 6:2  Bear one another’s burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ.
WEB Gal 6:3  For if a man thinks himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceives himself.
WEB Gal 6:4  But let each man examine his own work, and then he will have reason to boast in himself, and not in someone else.
WEB Gal 6:5  For each man will bear his own burden.
WEB Gal 6:6  But let him who is taught in the word share all good things with him who teaches.
WEB Gal 6:7  Don’t be deceived. God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, that he will also reap.
WEB Gal 6:8  For he who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. But he who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life.
WEB Gal 6:9  Let’s not be weary in doing good, for we will reap in due season if we don’t give up.
WEB Gal 6:10  So then, as we have opportunity, let’s do what is good toward all men, and especially toward those who are of the household of the faith.
WEB Gal 6:11  See with what large letters I write to you with my own hand.
WEB Gal 6:12  As many as desire to make a good impression in the flesh compel you to be circumcised, just so they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ.
WEB Gal 6:13  For even they who receive circumcision don’t keep the law themselves, but they desire to have you circumcised, so that they may boast in your flesh.
WEB Gal 6:14  But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.
WEB Gal 6:15  For in Christ Jesus neither is circumcision anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation.
WEB Gal 6:16  As many as walk by this rule, peace and mercy be on them, and on God’s Israel.
WEB Gal 6:17  From now on, let no one cause me any trouble, for I bear the marks of the Lord Jesus branded on my body.
WEB Gal 6:18  The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen.

=== WEB Eph 4 ===

WEB Eph 4:1  I therefore, the prisoner in the Lord, beg you to walk worthily of the calling with which you were called,
WEB Eph 4:2  with all lowliness and humility, with patience, bearing with one another in love,
WEB Eph 4:3  being eager to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
WEB Eph 4:4  There is one body and one Spirit, even as you also were called in one hope of your calling,
WEB Eph 4:5  one Lord, one faith, one baptism,
WEB Eph 4:6  one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in us all.
WEB Eph 4:7  But to each one of us, the grace was given according to the measure of the gift of Christ.
WEB Eph 4:8  Therefore he says, “When he ascended on high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts to people.”
WEB Eph 4:9  Now this, “He ascended”, what is it but that he also first descended into the lower parts of the earth?
WEB Eph 4:10  He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things.
WEB Eph 4:11  He gave some to be apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, shepherds and teachers;
WEB Eph 4:12  for the perfecting of the saints, to the work of serving, to the building up of the body of Christ,
WEB Eph 4:13  until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a full grown man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ,
WEB Eph 4:14  that we may no longer be children, tossed back and forth and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, in craftiness, after the wiles of error;
WEB Eph 4:15  but speaking truth in love, we may grow up in all things into him who is the head, Christ,
WEB Eph 4:16  from whom all the body, being fitted and knit together through that which every joint supplies, according to the working in measure of each individual part, makes the body increase to the building up of itself in love.
WEB Eph 4:17  This I say therefore, and testify in the Lord, that you no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles also walk, in the futility of their mind,
WEB Eph 4:18  being darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the hardening of their hearts.
WEB Eph 4:19  They, having become callous, gave themselves up to lust, to work all uncleanness with greediness.
WEB Eph 4:20  But you didn’t learn Christ that way,
WEB Eph 4:21  if indeed you heard him and were taught in him, even as truth is in Jesus:
WEB Eph 4:22  that you put away, as concerning your former way of life, the old man that grows corrupt after the lusts of deceit,
WEB Eph 4:23  and that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind,
WEB Eph 4:24  and put on the new man, who in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of truth.
WEB Eph 4:25  Therefore, putting away falsehood, speak truth each one with his neighbor, for we are members of one another.
WEB Eph 4:26  “Be angry, and don’t sin.” Don’t let the sun go down on your wrath,
WEB Eph 4:27  and don’t give place to the devil.
WEB Eph 4:28  Let him who stole steal no more; but rather let him labor, producing with his hands something that is good, that he may have something to give to him who has need.
WEB Eph 4:29  Let no corrupt speech proceed out of your mouth, but only what is good for building others up as the need may be, that it may give grace to those who hear.
WEB Eph 4:30  Don’t grieve the Holy Spirit of God, in whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.
WEB Eph 4:31  Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, outcry, and slander be put away from you, with all malice.
WEB Eph 4:32  And be kind to one another, tender hearted, forgiving each other, just as God also in Christ forgave you.

=== WEB Eph 5 ===

WEB Eph 5:1  Be therefore imitators of God, as beloved children.
WEB Eph 5:2  Walk in love, even as Christ also loved us and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling fragrance.
WEB Eph 5:3  But sexual immorality, and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not even be mentioned among you, as becomes saints;
WEB Eph 5:4  nor filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not appropriate, but rather giving of thanks.
WEB Eph 5:5  Know this for sure, that no sexually immoral person, nor unclean person, nor covetous man (who is an idolater), has any inheritance in the Kingdom of Christ and God.
WEB Eph 5:6  Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience.
WEB Eph 5:7  Therefore don’t be partakers with them.
WEB Eph 5:8  For you were once darkness, but are now light in the Lord. Walk as children of light,
WEB Eph 5:9  for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth,
WEB Eph 5:10  proving what is well pleasing to the Lord.
WEB Eph 5:11  Have no fellowship with the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but rather even reprove them.
WEB Eph 5:12  For it is a shame even to speak of the things which are done by them in secret.
WEB Eph 5:13  But all things, when they are reproved, are revealed by the light, for everything that reveals is light.
WEB Eph 5:14  Therefore he says, “Awake, you who sleep, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.”
WEB Eph 5:15  Therefore watch carefully how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise,
WEB Eph 5:16  redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
WEB Eph 5:17  Therefore, don’t be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
WEB Eph 5:18  Don’t be drunken with wine, in which is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit,
WEB Eph 5:19  speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs; singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord;
WEB Eph 5:20  giving thanks always concerning all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to God, even the Father;
WEB Eph 5:21  subjecting yourselves to one another in the fear of Christ.
WEB Eph 5:22  Wives, be subject to your own husbands, as to the Lord.
WEB Eph 5:23  For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the assembly, being himself the savior of the body.
WEB Eph 5:24  But as the assembly is subject to Christ, so let the wives also be to their own husbands in everything.
WEB Eph 5:25  Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the assembly and gave himself up for her,
WEB Eph 5:26  that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word,
WEB Eph 5:27  that he might present the assembly to himself gloriously, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without defect.
WEB Eph 5:28  Even so husbands also ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself.
WEB Eph 5:29  For no man ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, even as the Lord also does the assembly,
WEB Eph 5:30  because we are members of his body, of his flesh and bones.
WEB Eph 5:31  “For this cause a man will leave his father and mother and will be joined to his wife. Then the two will become one flesh.”
WEB Eph 5:32  This mystery is great, but I speak concerning Christ and the assembly.
WEB Eph 5:33  Nevertheless each of you must also love his own wife even as himself; and let the wife see that she respects her husband.

=== WEB Eph 6 ===

WEB Eph 6:1  Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
WEB Eph 6:2  “Honor your father and mother,” which is the first commandment with a promise:
WEB Eph 6:3  “that it may be well with you, and you may live long on the earth.”
WEB Eph 6:4  You fathers, don’t provoke your children to wrath, but nurture them in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.
WEB Eph 6:5  Servants, be obedient to those who according to the flesh are your masters, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as to Christ,
WEB Eph 6:6  not in the way of service only when eyes are on you, as men pleasers, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,
WEB Eph 6:7  with good will doing service as to the Lord and not to men,
WEB Eph 6:8  knowing that whatever good thing each one does, he will receive the same good again from the Lord, whether he is bound or free.
WEB Eph 6:9  You masters, do the same things to them, and give up threatening, knowing that he who is both their Master and yours is in heaven, and there is no partiality with him.
WEB Eph 6:10  Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might.
WEB Eph 6:11  Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
WEB Eph 6:12  For our wrestling is not against flesh and blood, but against the principalities, against the powers, against the world’s rulers of the darkness of this age, and against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places.
WEB Eph 6:13  Therefore put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.
WEB Eph 6:14  Stand therefore, having the utility belt of truth buckled around your waist, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness,
WEB Eph 6:15  and having fitted your feet with the preparation of the Good News of peace,
WEB Eph 6:16  above all, taking up the shield of faith, with which you will be able to quench all the fiery darts of the evil one.
WEB Eph 6:17  And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God;
WEB Eph 6:18  with all prayer and requests, praying at all times in the Spirit, and being watchful to this end in all perseverance and requests for all the saints.
WEB Eph 6:19  Pray for me, that utterance may be given to me in opening my mouth, to make known with boldness the mystery of the Good News,
WEB Eph 6:20  for which I am an ambassador in chains; that in it I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak.
WEB Eph 6:21  But that you also may know my affairs, how I am doing, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful servant in the Lord, will make known to you all things.
WEB Eph 6:22  I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know our state and that he may comfort your hearts.
WEB Eph 6:23  Peace be to the brothers, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
WEB Eph 6:24  Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ with incorruptible love. Amen.

=== WEB Phil 2 ===

WEB Phil 2:1  If therefore there is any exhortation in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any tender mercies and compassion,
WEB Phil 2:2  make my joy full by being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind;
WEB Phil 2:3  doing nothing through rivalry or through conceit, but in humility, each counting others better than himself;
WEB Phil 2:4  each of you not just looking to his own things, but each of you also to the things of others.
WEB Phil 2:5  Have this in your mind, which was also in Christ Jesus,
WEB Phil 2:6  who, existing in the form of God, didn’t consider equality with God a thing to be grasped,
WEB Phil 2:7  but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men.
WEB Phil 2:8  And being found in human form, he humbled himself, becoming obedient to the point of death, yes, the death of the cross.
WEB Phil 2:9  Therefore God also highly exalted him, and gave to him the name which is above every name,
WEB Phil 2:10  that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven, those on earth, and those under the earth,
WEB Phil 2:11  and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
WEB Phil 2:12  So then, my beloved, even as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
WEB Phil 2:13  For it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure.
WEB Phil 2:14  Do all things without complaining and arguing,
WEB Phil 2:15  that you may become blameless and harmless, children of God without defect in the middle of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you are seen as lights in the world,
WEB Phil 2:16  holding up the word of life, that I may have something to boast in the day of Christ that I didn’t run in vain nor labor in vain.
WEB Phil 2:17  Yes, and if I am poured out on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all.
WEB Phil 2:18  In the same way, you also should be glad and rejoice with me.
WEB Phil 2:19  But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, that I also may be cheered up when I know how you are doing.
WEB Phil 2:20  For I have no one else like-minded, who will truly care about you.
WEB Phil 2:21  For they all seek their own, not the things of Jesus Christ.
WEB Phil 2:22  But you know that he has proved himself. As a child serves a father, so he served with me in furtherance of the Good News.
WEB Phil 2:23  Therefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see how it will go with me.
WEB Phil 2:24  But I trust in the Lord that I myself also will come shortly.
WEB Phil 2:25  But I thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow worker, fellow soldier, and your apostle and servant of my need,
WEB Phil 2:26  since he longed for you all, and was very troubled because you had heard that he was sick.
WEB Phil 2:27  For indeed he was sick nearly to death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but on me also, that I might not have sorrow on sorrow.
WEB Phil 2:28  I have sent him therefore the more diligently, that when you see him again, you may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful.
WEB Phil 2:29  Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold such people in honor,
WEB Phil 2:30  because for the work of Christ he came near to death, risking his life to supply that which was lacking in your service toward me.

=== WEB Col 3 ===

WEB Col 3:1  If then you were raised together with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated on the right hand of God.
WEB Col 3:2  Set your mind on the things that are above, not on the things that are on the earth.
WEB Col 3:3  For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
WEB Col 3:4  When Christ, our life, is revealed, then you will also be revealed with him in glory.
WEB Col 3:5  Put to death therefore your members which are on the earth: sexual immorality, uncleanness, depraved passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry.
WEB Col 3:6  For these things’ sake the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience.
WEB Col 3:7  You also once walked in those, when you lived in them,
WEB Col 3:8  but now you must put them all away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and shameful speaking out of your mouth.
WEB Col 3:9  Don’t lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old man with his doings,
WEB Col 3:10  and have put on the new man, who is being renewed in knowledge after the image of his Creator,
WEB Col 3:11  where there can’t be Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bondservant, or free person; but Christ is all, and in all.
WEB Col 3:12  Put on therefore, as God’s chosen ones, holy and beloved, a heart of compassion, kindness, lowliness, humility, and perseverance;
WEB Col 3:13  bearing with one another, and forgiving each other, if any man has a complaint against any; even as Christ forgave you, so you also do.
WEB Col 3:14  Above all these things, walk in love, which is the bond of perfection.
WEB Col 3:15  And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body, and be thankful.
WEB Col 3:16  Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly; in all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your heart to the Lord.
WEB Col 3:17  Whatever you do, in word or in deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.
WEB Col 3:18  Wives, be in subjection to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.
WEB Col 3:19  Husbands, love your wives, and don’t be bitter against them.
WEB Col 3:20  Children, obey your parents in all things, for this pleases the Lord.
WEB Col 3:21  Fathers, don’t provoke your children, so that they won’t be discouraged.
WEB Col 3:22  Servants, obey in all things those who are your masters according to the flesh, not just when they are looking, as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God.
WEB Col 3:23  And whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men,
WEB Col 3:24  knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance; for you serve the Lord Christ.
WEB Col 3:25  But he who does wrong will receive again for the wrong that he has done, and there is no partiality.

=== WEB 1 Tim 6 ===

WEB 1 Tim 6:1  Let as many as are bondservants under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name of God and the doctrine not be blasphemed.
WEB 1 Tim 6:2  Those who have believing masters, let them not despise them because they are brothers, but rather let them serve them, because those who partake of the benefit are believing and beloved. Teach and exhort these things.
WEB 1 Tim 6:3  If anyone teaches a different doctrine and doesn’t consent to sound words, the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness,
WEB 1 Tim 6:4  he is conceited, knowing nothing, but obsessed with arguments, disputes, and word battles, from which come envy, strife, insulting, evil suspicions,
WEB 1 Tim 6:5  constant friction of people of corrupt minds and destitute of the truth, who suppose that godliness is a means of gain. Withdraw yourself from such.
WEB 1 Tim 6:6  But godliness with contentment is great gain.
WEB 1 Tim 6:7  For we brought nothing into the world, and we certainly can’t carry anything out.
WEB 1 Tim 6:8  But having food and clothing, we will be content with that.
WEB 1 Tim 6:9  But those who are determined to be rich fall into a temptation, a snare, and many foolish and harmful lusts, such as drown men in ruin and destruction.
WEB 1 Tim 6:10  For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. Some have been led astray from the faith in their greed, and have pierced themselves through with many sorrows.
WEB 1 Tim 6:11  But you, man of God, flee these things, and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, perseverance, and gentleness.
WEB 1 Tim 6:12  Fight the good fight of faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called, and you confessed the good confession in the sight of many witnesses.
WEB 1 Tim 6:13  I command you before God who gives life to all things, and before Christ Jesus who before Pontius Pilate testified the good confession,
WEB 1 Tim 6:14  that you keep the commandment without spot, blameless until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
WEB 1 Tim 6:15  which at the right time he will show, who is the blessed and only Ruler, the King of kings and Lord of lords.
WEB 1 Tim 6:16  He alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen nor can see, to whom be honor and eternal power. Amen.
WEB 1 Tim 6:17  Charge those who are rich in this present age that they not be arrogant, nor have their hope set on the uncertainty of riches, but on the living God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy;
WEB 1 Tim 6:18  that they do good, that they be rich in good works, that they be ready to distribute, willing to share;
WEB 1 Tim 6:19  laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold of eternal life.
WEB 1 Tim 6:20  Timothy, guard that which is committed to you, turning away from the empty chatter and oppositions of what is falsely called knowledge,
WEB 1 Tim 6:21  which some profess, and thus have wandered from the faith. Grace be with you. Amen.

=== WEB Jas 1 ===

WEB Jas 1:1  James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are in the Dispersion: Greetings.
WEB Jas 1:2  Count it all joy, my brothers, when you fall into various temptations,
WEB Jas 1:3  knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance.
WEB Jas 1:4  Let endurance have its perfect work, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing.
WEB Jas 1:5  But if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and without reproach, and it will be given to him.
WEB Jas 1:6  But let him ask in faith, without any doubting, for he who doubts is like a wave of the sea, driven by the wind and tossed.
WEB Jas 1:7  For that man shouldn’t think that he will receive anything from the Lord.
WEB Jas 1:8  He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways.
WEB Jas 1:9  Let the brother in humble circumstances glory in his high position;
WEB Jas 1:10  and the rich, in that he is made humble, because like the flower in the grass, he will pass away.
WEB Jas 1:11  For the sun arises with the scorching wind and withers the grass; and the flower in it falls, and the beauty of its appearance perishes. So the rich man will also fade away in his pursuits.
WEB Jas 1:12  Blessed is a person who endures temptation, for when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life which the Lord promised to those who love him.
WEB Jas 1:13  Let no man say when he is tempted, “I am tempted by God,” for God can’t be tempted by evil, and he himself tempts no one.
WEB Jas 1:14  But each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own lust and enticed.
WEB Jas 1:15  Then the lust, when it has conceived, bears sin. The sin, when it is full grown, produces death.
WEB Jas 1:16  Don’t be deceived, my beloved brothers.
WEB Jas 1:17  Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom can be no variation nor turning shadow.
WEB Jas 1:18  Of his own will he gave birth to us by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures.
WEB Jas 1:19  So, then, my beloved brothers, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger;
WEB Jas 1:20  for the anger of man doesn’t produce the righteousness of God.
WEB Jas 1:21  Therefore, putting away all filthiness and overflowing of wickedness, receive with humility the implanted word, which is able to save your souls.
WEB Jas 1:22  But be doers of the word, and not only hearers, deluding your own selves.
WEB Jas 1:23  For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man looking at his natural face in a mirror;
WEB Jas 1:24  for he sees himself, and goes away, and immediately forgets what kind of man he was.
WEB Jas 1:25  But he who looks into the perfect law of freedom and continues, not being a hearer who forgets but a doer of the work, this man will be blessed in what he does.
WEB Jas 1:26  If anyone among you thinks himself to be religious while he doesn’t bridle his tongue, but deceives his heart, this man’s religion is worthless.
WEB Jas 1:27  Pure religion and undefiled before our God and Father is this: to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained by the world.

=== WEB Jas 2 ===

WEB Jas 2:1  My brothers, don’t hold the faith of our glorious Lord Jesus Christ with partiality.
WEB Jas 2:2  For if a man with a gold ring, in fine clothing, comes into your synagogue, and a poor man in filthy clothing also comes in,
WEB Jas 2:3  and you pay special attention to him who wears the fine clothing and say, “Sit here in a good place;” and you tell the poor man, “Stand there,” or “Sit by my footstool”
WEB Jas 2:4  haven’t you shown partiality among yourselves, and become judges with evil thoughts?
WEB Jas 2:5  Listen, my beloved brothers. Didn’t God choose those who are poor in this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the Kingdom which he promised to those who love him?
WEB Jas 2:6  But you have dishonored the poor man. Don’t the rich oppress you and personally drag you before the courts?
WEB Jas 2:7  Don’t they blaspheme the honorable name by which you are called?
WEB Jas 2:8  However, if you fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself,” you do well.
WEB Jas 2:9  But if you show partiality, you commit sin, being convicted by the law as transgressors.
WEB Jas 2:10  For whoever keeps the whole law, and yet stumbles in one point, he has become guilty of all.
WEB Jas 2:11  For he who said, “Do not commit adultery,” also said, “Do not commit murder.” Now if you do not commit adultery but do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law.
WEB Jas 2:12  So speak and so do as men who are to be judged by the law of freedom.
WEB Jas 2:13  For judgment is without mercy to him who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.
WEB Jas 2:14  What good is it, my brothers, if a man says he has faith, but has no works? Can faith save him?
WEB Jas 2:15  And if a brother or sister is naked and in lack of daily food,
WEB Jas 2:16  and one of you tells them, “Go in peace. Be warmed and filled;” yet you didn’t give them the things the body needs, what good is it?
WEB Jas 2:17  Even so faith, if it has no works, is dead in itself.
WEB Jas 2:18  Yes, a man will say, “You have faith, and I have works.” Show me your faith without works, and I will show you my faith by my works.
WEB Jas 2:19  You believe that God is one. You do well. The demons also believe—and shudder.
WEB Jas 2:20  But do you want to know, vain man, that faith apart from works is dead?
WEB Jas 2:21  Wasn’t Abraham our father justified by works, in that he offered up Isaac his son on the altar?
WEB Jas 2:22  You see that faith worked with his works, and by works faith was perfected.
WEB Jas 2:23  So the Scripture was fulfilled which says, “Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness,” and he was called the friend of God.
WEB Jas 2:24  You see then that by works a man is justified, and not only by faith.
WEB Jas 2:25  In the same way, wasn’t Rahab the prostitute also justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out another way?
WEB Jas 2:26  For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, even so faith apart from works is dead.

=== WEB Jas 3 ===

WEB Jas 3:1  Let not many of you be teachers, my brothers, knowing that we will receive heavier judgment.
WEB Jas 3:2  For we all stumble in many things. Anyone who doesn’t stumble in word is a perfect person, able to bridle the whole body also.
WEB Jas 3:3  Indeed, we put bits into the horses’ mouths so that they may obey us, and we guide their whole body.
WEB Jas 3:4  Behold, the ships also, though they are so big and are driven by fierce winds, are yet guided by a very small rudder, wherever the pilot desires.
WEB Jas 3:5  So the tongue is also a little member, and boasts great things. See how a small fire can spread to a large forest!
WEB Jas 3:6  And the tongue is a fire. The world of iniquity among our members is the tongue, which defiles the whole body, and sets on fire the course of nature, and is set on fire by Gehenna.
WEB Jas 3:7  For every kind of animal, bird, creeping thing, and sea creature is tamed, and has been tamed by mankind;
WEB Jas 3:8  but nobody can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
WEB Jas 3:9  With it we bless our God and Father, and with it we curse men who are made in the image of God.
WEB Jas 3:10  Out of the same mouth comes blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so.
WEB Jas 3:11  Does a spring send out from the same opening fresh and bitter water?
WEB Jas 3:12  Can a fig tree, my brothers, yield olives, or a vine figs? Thus no spring yields both salt water and fresh water.
WEB Jas 3:13  Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show by his good conduct that his deeds are done in gentleness of wisdom.
WEB Jas 3:14  But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, don’t boast and don’t lie against the truth.
WEB Jas 3:15  This wisdom is not that which comes down from above, but is earthly, sensual, and demonic.
WEB Jas 3:16  For where jealousy and selfish ambition are, there is confusion and every evil deed.
WEB Jas 3:17  But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceful, gentle, reasonable, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy.
WEB Jas 3:18  Now the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace.

=== WEB Jas 4 ===

WEB Jas 4:1  Where do wars and fightings among you come from? Don’t they come from your pleasures that war in your members?
WEB Jas 4:2  You lust, and don’t have. You murder and covet, and can’t obtain. You fight and make war. You don’t have, because you don’t ask.
WEB Jas 4:3  You ask, and don’t receive, because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it on your pleasures.
WEB Jas 4:4  You adulterers and adulteresses, don’t you know that friendship with the world is hostility toward God? Whoever therefore wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.
WEB Jas 4:5  Or do you think that the Scripture says in vain, “The Spirit who lives in us yearns jealously”?
WEB Jas 4:6  But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, “God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.”
WEB Jas 4:7  Be subject therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
WEB Jas 4:8  Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners. Purify your hearts, you double-minded.
WEB Jas 4:9  Lament, mourn, and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom.
WEB Jas 4:10  Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will exalt you.
WEB Jas 4:11  Don’t speak against one another, brothers. He who speaks against a brother and judges his brother, speaks against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law but a judge.
WEB Jas 4:12  Only one is the lawgiver, who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge another?
WEB Jas 4:13  Come now, you who say, “Today or tomorrow let’s go into this city and spend a year there, trade, and make a profit.”
WEB Jas 4:14  Yet you don’t know what your life will be like tomorrow. For what is your life? For you are a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away.
WEB Jas 4:15  For you ought to say, “If the Lord wills, we will both live, and do this or that.”
WEB Jas 4:16  But now you glory in your boasting. All such boasting is evil.
WEB Jas 4:17  To him therefore who knows to do good and doesn’t do it, to him it is sin.

=== WEB Jas 5 ===

WEB Jas 5:1  Come now, you rich, weep and howl for your miseries that are coming on you.
WEB Jas 5:2  Your riches are corrupted and your garments are moth-eaten.
WEB Jas 5:3  Your gold and your silver are corroded, and their corrosion will be for a testimony against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up your treasure in the last days.
WEB Jas 5:4  Behold, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you have kept back by fraud, cry out; and the cries of those who reaped have entered into the ears of the Lord of Armies.
WEB Jas 5:5  You have lived in luxury on the earth, and taken your pleasure. You have nourished your hearts as in a day of slaughter.
WEB Jas 5:6  You have condemned and you have murdered the righteous one. He doesn’t resist you.
WEB Jas 5:7  Be patient therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. Behold, the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient over it, until it receives the early and late rain.
WEB Jas 5:8  You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand.
WEB Jas 5:9  Don’t grumble, brothers, against one another, so that you won’t be judged. Behold, the judge stands at the door.
WEB Jas 5:10  Take, brothers, for an example of suffering and of perseverance, the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.
WEB Jas 5:11  Behold, we call them blessed who endured. You have heard of the perseverance of Job and have seen the Lord in the outcome, and how the Lord is full of compassion and mercy.
WEB Jas 5:12  But above all things, my brothers, don’t swear—not by heaven, or by the earth, or by any other oath; but let your “yes” be “yes”, and your “no”, “no”, so that you don’t fall into hypocrisy.
WEB Jas 5:13  Is any among you suffering? Let him pray. Is any cheerful? Let him sing praises.
WEB Jas 5:14  Is any among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the assembly, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord;
WEB Jas 5:15  and the prayer of faith will heal him who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. If he has committed sins, he will be forgiven.
WEB Jas 5:16  Confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The insistent prayer of a righteous person is powerfully effective.
WEB Jas 5:17  Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it didn’t rain on the earth for three years and six months.
WEB Jas 5:18  He prayed again, and the sky gave rain, and the earth produced its fruit.
WEB Jas 5:19  Brothers, if any among you wanders from the truth and someone turns him back,
WEB Jas 5:20  let him know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will save a soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins.

=== WEB 1 Pet 2 ===

WEB 1 Pet 2:1  Putting away therefore all wickedness, all deceit, hypocrisies, envies, and all evil speaking,
WEB 1 Pet 2:2  as newborn babies, long for the pure spiritual milk, that with it you may grow,
WEB 1 Pet 2:3  if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is gracious.
WEB 1 Pet 2:4  Come to him, a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God, precious.
WEB 1 Pet 2:5  You also as living stones are built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
WEB 1 Pet 2:6  Because it is contained in Scripture, “Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, chosen and precious. He who believes in him will not be disappointed.”
WEB 1 Pet 2:7  For you who believe therefore is the honor, but for those who are disobedient, “The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone,”
WEB 1 Pet 2:8  and, “a stumbling stone and a rock of offense.” For they stumble at the word, being disobedient, to which also they were appointed.
WEB 1 Pet 2:9  But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God’s own possession, that you may proclaim the excellence of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.
WEB 1 Pet 2:10  In the past, you were not a people, but now are God’s people, who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy.
WEB 1 Pet 2:11  Beloved, I beg you as foreigners and pilgrims to abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul,
WEB 1 Pet 2:12  having good behavior among the nations, so in that of which they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good works and glorify God in the day of visitation.
WEB 1 Pet 2:13  Therefore subject yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord’s sake: whether to the king, as supreme,
WEB 1 Pet 2:14  or to governors, as sent by him for vengeance on evildoers and for praise to those who do well.
WEB 1 Pet 2:15  For this is the will of God, that by well-doing you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish men.
WEB 1 Pet 2:16  Live as free people, yet not using your freedom for a cloak of wickedness, but as bondservants of God.
WEB 1 Pet 2:17  Honor all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king.
WEB 1 Pet 2:18  Servants, be in subjection to your masters with all respect, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the wicked.
WEB 1 Pet 2:19  For it is commendable if someone endures pain, suffering unjustly, because of conscience toward God.
WEB 1 Pet 2:20  For what glory is it if, when you sin, you patiently endure beating? But if when you do well, you patiently endure suffering, this is commendable with God.
WEB 1 Pet 2:21  For you were called to this, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving you an example, that you should follow his steps,
WEB 1 Pet 2:22  who didn’t sin, “neither was deceit found in his mouth.”
WEB 1 Pet 2:23  When he was cursed, he didn’t curse back. When he suffered, he didn’t threaten, but committed himself to him who judges righteously.
WEB 1 Pet 2:24  He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we, having died to sins, might live to righteousness. You were healed by his wounds.
WEB 1 Pet 2:25  For you were going astray like sheep; but now you have returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.

=== WEB 1 Pet 3 ===

WEB 1 Pet 3:1  In the same way, wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, so that, even if any don’t obey the Word, they may be won by the behavior of their wives without a word,
WEB 1 Pet 3:2  seeing your pure behavior in fear.
WEB 1 Pet 3:3  Let your beauty come not from the outward adorning of braiding your hair, and of wearing gold ornaments or of putting on fine clothing,
WEB 1 Pet 3:4  but from the hidden person of the heart, in the incorruptible adornment of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is very precious in God’s sight.
WEB 1 Pet 3:5  For this is how in the past the holy women who hoped in God also adorned themselves, being in subjection to their own husbands.
WEB 1 Pet 3:6  So Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord, whose children you now are if you do well and are not put in fear by any terror.
WEB 1 Pet 3:7  You husbands, in the same way, live with your wives according to knowledge, giving honor to the woman as to the weaker vessel, as also being joint heirs of the grace of life, that your prayers may not be hindered.
WEB 1 Pet 3:8  Finally, all of you be like-minded, compassionate, loving as brothers, tenderhearted, courteous,
WEB 1 Pet 3:9  not rendering evil for evil or insult for insult; but instead blessing, knowing that you were called to this, that you may inherit a blessing.
WEB 1 Pet 3:10  For, “He who would love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit.
WEB 1 Pet 3:11  Let him turn away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it.
WEB 1 Pet 3:12  For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears open to their prayer; but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.”
WEB 1 Pet 3:13  Now who will harm you if you become imitators of that which is good?
WEB 1 Pet 3:14  But even if you should suffer for righteousness’ sake, you are blessed. “Don’t fear what they fear, neither be troubled.”
WEB 1 Pet 3:15  But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Always be ready to give an answer to everyone who asks you a reason concerning the hope that is in you, with humility and fear,
WEB 1 Pet 3:16  having a good conscience. Thus, while you are spoken against as evildoers, they may be disappointed who curse your good way of life in Christ.
WEB 1 Pet 3:17  For it is better, if it is God’s will, that you suffer for doing what is right than for doing evil.
WEB 1 Pet 3:18  Because Christ also suffered for sins once, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring you to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the Spirit,
WEB 1 Pet 3:19  in whom he also went and preached to the spirits in prison,
WEB 1 Pet 3:20  who before were disobedient when God waited patiently in the days of Noah while the ship was being built. In it, few, that is, eight souls, were saved through water.
WEB 1 Pet 3:21  This is a symbol of baptism, which now saves you—not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God—through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
WEB 1 Pet 3:22  who is at the right hand of God, having gone into heaven, angels and authorities and powers being made subject to him.

=== WEB 1 Jn 3 ===

WEB 1 Jn 3:1  See how great a love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God! For this cause the world doesn’t know us, because it didn’t know him.
WEB 1 Jn 3:2  Beloved, now we are children of God. It is not yet revealed what we will be; but we know that when he is revealed, we will be like him, for we will see him just as he is.
WEB 1 Jn 3:3  Everyone who has this hope set on him purifies himself, even as he is pure.
WEB 1 Jn 3:4  Everyone who sins also commits lawlessness. Sin is lawlessness.
WEB 1 Jn 3:5  You know that he was revealed to take away our sins, and no sin is in him.
WEB 1 Jn 3:6  Whoever remains in him doesn’t sin. Whoever sins hasn’t seen him and doesn’t know him.
WEB 1 Jn 3:7  Little children, let no one lead you astray. He who does righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous.
WEB 1 Jn 3:8  He who sins is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. To this end the Son of God was revealed: that he might destroy the works of the devil.
WEB 1 Jn 3:9  Whoever is born of God doesn’t commit sin, because his seed remains in him, and he can’t sin, because he is born of God.
WEB 1 Jn 3:10  In this the children of God are revealed, and the children of the devil. Whoever doesn’t do righteousness is not of God, neither is he who doesn’t love his brother.
WEB 1 Jn 3:11  For this is the message which you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another—
WEB 1 Jn 3:12  unlike Cain, who was of the evil one and killed his brother. Why did he kill him? Because his deeds were evil, and his brother’s righteous.
WEB 1 Jn 3:13  Don’t be surprised, my brothers, if the world hates you.
WEB 1 Jn 3:14  We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers. He who doesn’t love his brother remains in death.
WEB 1 Jn 3:15  Whoever hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life remaining in him.
WEB 1 Jn 3:16  By this we know love, because he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers.
WEB 1 Jn 3:17  But whoever has the world’s goods and sees his brother in need, then closes his heart of compassion against him, how does God’s love remain in him?
WEB 1 Jn 3:18  My little children, let’s not love in word only, or with the tongue only, but in deed and truth.
WEB 1 Jn 3:19  And by this we know that we are of the truth and persuade our hearts before him,
WEB 1 Jn 3:20  because if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart, and knows all things.
WEB 1 Jn 3:21  Beloved, if our hearts don’t condemn us, we have boldness toward God;
WEB 1 Jn 3:22  so whatever we ask, we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight.
WEB 1 Jn 3:23  This is his commandment, that we should believe in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ, and love one another, even as he commanded.
WEB 1 Jn 3:24  He who keeps his commandments remains in him, and he in him. By this we know that he remains in us, by the Spirit which he gave us.

=== WEB 1 Jn 4 ===

WEB 1 Jn 4:1  Beloved, don’t believe every spirit, but test the spirits, whether they are of God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world.
WEB 1 Jn 4:2  By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit who confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God,
WEB 1 Jn 4:3  and every spirit who doesn’t confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God; and this is the spirit of the Antichrist, of whom you have heard that it comes. Now it is in the world already.
WEB 1 Jn 4:4  You are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world.
WEB 1 Jn 4:5  They are of the world. Therefore they speak of the world, and the world hears them.
WEB 1 Jn 4:6  We are of God. He who knows God listens to us. He who is not of God doesn’t listen to us. By this we know the spirit of truth, and the spirit of error.
WEB 1 Jn 4:7  Beloved, let’s love one another, for love is of God; and everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God.
WEB 1 Jn 4:8  He who doesn’t love doesn’t know God, for God is love.
WEB 1 Jn 4:9  By this God’s love was revealed in us, that God has sent his only born Son into the world that we might live through him.
WEB 1 Jn 4:10  In this is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his Son as the atoning sacrifice for our sins.
WEB 1 Jn 4:11  Beloved, if God loved us in this way, we also ought to love one another.
WEB 1 Jn 4:12  No one has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God remains in us, and his love has been perfected in us.
WEB 1 Jn 4:13  By this we know that we remain in him and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit.
WEB 1 Jn 4:14  We have seen and testify that the Father has sent the Son as the Savior of the world.
WEB 1 Jn 4:15  Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God remains in him, and he in God.
WEB 1 Jn 4:16  We know and have believed the love which God has for us. God is love, and he who remains in love remains in God, and God remains in him.
WEB 1 Jn 4:17  In this, love has been made perfect among us, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, even so we are in this world.
WEB 1 Jn 4:18  There is no fear in love; but perfect love casts out fear, because fear has punishment. He who fears is not made perfect in love.
WEB 1 Jn 4:19  We love him, because he first loved us.
WEB 1 Jn 4:20  If a man says, “I love God,” and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who doesn’t love his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen?
WEB 1 Jn 4:21  This commandment we have from him, that he who loves God should also love his brother.
