# Dhammapada (Dhammapada / “Dhamma Verses”), selected chapters, Pali text with English translation
# Translator: Ānandajoti Bhikkhu
# Source: Ancient Buddhist Texts, https://www.ancient-buddhist-texts.net/
# License: CC BY-SA 3.0 Unported (per https://www.ancient-buddhist-texts.net/Miscellaneous/Copyright-Notice.htm,
#   verified 2026-09-07). Attribution: Anandajoti Bhikkhu. Derivative works must be shared alike.
# Accessed: 2026-09-07. Processing: HTML stripped, site navigation/audio widgets removed, whitespace normalised.
# Pali root text: Ānandajoti’s edition, prepared from public-domain Buddha Jayanti Tripitaka (BJT) material.
# Passage id prefix for citation: "Dhp <verse number>"


----- 01 Pairs -----

Dhamma Verses
Yamakavaggo
1. The Chapter about the Pairs
right click to download mp3
No Escape from Bad Deeds
The monk Cakkhupāla determined to fulfil his practice even at the cost of his eyes and eventually he attained Awakening; the Buddha explained the deed he did in the past which caused his loss of sight in the present, and he summarised the teaching with this verse.
1 . Manopubbaṅgamā dhammā, manoseṭṭhā manomayā,
manasā ce paduṭṭhena bhāsati vā karoti vā,
tato naṁ dukkham-anveti cakkaṁ va vahato padaṁ.
Mind precedes thoughts, mind is their chief,
their quality is made by mind,
if with base mind one speaks or acts
through that suffering follows one
like a wheel follows ox’s foot.
The Reward of Good Deeds
Maṭṭhakuṇḍali, the son of a miser, died after paying his respects to the Buddha and was reborn in heaven; later he came and showed his father the reward of good deeds, and his father was converted; the Buddha explained the matter with this verse.
2 . Manopubbaṅgamā dhammā, manoseṭṭhā manomayā,
manasā ce pasannena bhāsati vā karoti vā,
tato naṁ sukham-anveti chāyā va anapāyinī.
Mind precedes thoughts, mind is their chief,
their quality is made by mind,
if with pure mind one speaks or acts
through that happiness follows one
like shadow which does not depart.
Hatred Is Not Overcome by Dwelling on It
Tissa, an older relative of the Buddha ordained and was vain and obstinate; the Buddha showed how he was also obstinate in a previous life and almost lost his head, and then he taught the monks with these verses.
3 . “Akkocchi maṁ, avadhi maṁ, ajini maṁ, ahāsi me”,
ye ca taṁ upanayhanti, veraṁ tesaṁ na sammati.
“He abused me, he struck at me,
he overcame me, he robbed me,”
those who bear ill-will towards this,
their hatred is never appeased.
4 . “Akkocchi maṁ, avadhi maṁ, ajini maṁ, ahāsi me”,
ye taṁ na upanayhanti, veraṁ tesūpasammati.
“He abused me, he struck at me,
he overcame me, he robbed me,”
those who bear not ill-will to this,
their hatred is surely appeased.
Hatred Is Overcome by Kindness
A barren woman brings home a young woman for her husband, but every time the young wife conceives the barren wife contrives an abortion; through life after life they consume each other’s children, until brought to the Buddha, who taught them with this verse.
5 . Na hi verena verāni sammantīdha kudācanaṁ,
averena ca sammanti, esa dhammo sanantano.
For not by hatred do hatreds
cease at any time in this place,
they only cease with non-hatred,
this truth is surely eternal.
One Should Listen to Admonition
The followers of two monks of Kosambi fell into a dispute and despite the Buddha’s admonitions, refused to be reconciled; the Buddha retired to Pārileyyaka forest and was served by an elephant and a monkey; meanwhile the lay people refused to attend on the monks till they came to their senses; eventually they asked for forgiveness and the Buddha taught them with this verse.
6 . Pare ca na vijānanti mayam-ettha yamāmase,
ye ca tattha vijānanti tato sammanti medhagā.
The others do not understand
that we should restrain ourselves here,
but for those who do understand,
through that, their dissensions do cease.
Seek for What Is Profitable
Two brothers, Cullakāla and Mahākāla, ordained and one went to a cemetery to practice and soon overcame the defilements and attained Awakening; the other, however, did not work at his practice and was soon enticed back to the lay life by his former wives; the Buddha spoke these verses about these two.
7 . Subhānupassiṁ viharantaṁ, indriyesu asaṁvutaṁ,
bhojanamhi amattaññuṁ, kusītaṁ hīnavīriyaṁ –
taṁ ve pasahati Māro vāto rukkhaṁ va dubbalaṁ.
Contemplating what is pleasant,
with sense faculties uncontrolled,
not knowing the limit in food,
indolent, low in energy –
Māra surely o’erthrows that one,
like wind overthrows a weak tree.
8 . Asubhānupassiṁ viharantaṁ, indriyesu susaṁvutaṁ,
bhojanamhi ca mattaññuṁ, saddhaṁ āraddhavīriyaṁ –
taṁ ve nappasahati Māro vāto selaṁ va pabbataṁ.
Contemplating the unpleasant,
with their sense faculties controlled,
and knowing the limit in food,
faithful, with energy aroused –
Māra does not o’erthrow that one,
just as wind does not overthrow
a mountain made of solid rock.
Being Worthy of the Robe
Elder Sāriputta preached on generosity and people decided to give alms; one man gave a robe, which they decided to give to Elder Devadatta; when the Buddha heard about it he related a Jātaka about Devadatta, who, as an elephant hunter, disguised himself as a Paccekabuddha in order to kill his prey, and then spoke these verses about him.
9 . Anikkasāvo kāsāvaṁ yo vatthaṁ paridahessati,
apeto damasaccena na so kāsāvam-arahati.
The one who, while he’s still impure,
would wear the renunciant’s robe,
unendowed with restraint and truth,
he is not worthy of that robe.
10 . Yo ca vantakasāvassa, sīlesu susamāhito,
upeto damasaccena sa ve kāsāvam-arahati.
The one who, steady in virtue,
throws out any impurity,
endowed with both restraint and truth,
is indeed worthy of that robe.
Discerning the Truth
The future Sāriputta and Moggallāna retired from the world under Sañjaya, but attained no great distinction; then they heard a summary of the Buddha’s teaching and were converted; they tried to bring Sañjaya to the Buddha but he would not go, his disciples left him and he died unconverted; the Buddha spoke these verses showing the difference between them.
11 . Asāre sāramatino, sāre cāsāradassino,
te sāraṁ nādhigacchanti, micchāsaṅkappagocarā.
Finding the essential in the unessential,
seeing the unessential in the essential,
they do not understand what is the essential,
and resort to wrong intention.
12 . Sārañ-ca sārato ñatvā, asārañ-ca asārato,
te sāraṁ adhigacchanti, sammāsaṅkappagocarā.
Knowing the essential in what is essential,
and the unessential in the unessential,
they come to understand what is the essential,
and resort to right intention.
Skilful Means
The Buddha’s half-brother Nanda ordained, but yearned for the lay-life; the Buddha promised him celestial sprites as a reward for his efforts in the spiritual life; Nanda put forth effort and became an Arahat, and the Buddha was released from his promise; these verses were spoken about him.
13 . Yathā agāraṁ ducchannaṁ vuṭṭhī samativijjhati,
evaṁ abhāvitaṁ cittaṁ rāgo samativijjhati.
Just as the rain can penetrate
a house with thatching that is poor,
so also passion penetrates
a mind that is undeveloped.
14 . Yathā agāraṁ succhannaṁ vuṭṭhī na samativijjhati,
evaṁ subhāvitaṁ cittaṁ rāgo na samativijjhati.
Just as rain does not penetrate
a house with thatching that is good,
so passion cannot penetrate
a mind that is well-developed.
The Wicked Will Lament
Cunda was a cruel pig butcher who cared not for the suffering he inflicted, and did no good deeds at all; before he died he started behaving like a pig himself, and later fell into Avīci, the hell of relentless suffering; the Buddha summarised the events with this verse.
15 . Idha socati, pecca socati,
pāpakārī ubhayattha socati,
so socati, so vihaññati,
disvā kammakiliṭṭham-attano.
Here he laments, after death he laments,
the wicked one laments in both places,
he laments and he suffers vexation,
seeing the defilement of his own deeds.
The Good Rejoice
Dhammika, a good supporter, lay dying and he requested the monks to chant the Mindfulness discourse for him; seeing celestial chariots coming to take him away, he asked them to wait until the monks finished chanting, but the monks thought he was asking them to stop and go away; later the Buddha explained Dhammika was reborn in the Tusita Heaven and he spoke this verse about him.
16 . Idha modati, pecca modati,
katapuñño ubhayattha modati,
so modati, so pamodati,
disvā kammavisuddhim-attano.
Here he rejoices, after death he rejoices,
the righteous one rejoices in both places,
he rejoices, he greatly rejoices,
seeing the purity of his own deeds.
The Wicked Suffer
Devadatta grew jealous and plotted to kill the Buddha, when that failed he tried to cause a schism; eventually he wished to seek for forgiveness, but before he reached the Buddha he fell into Avīci, the hell of relentless suffering; the Buddha summarised the events with this verse.
17 . Idha tappati, pecca tappati,
pāpakārī ubhayattha tappati,
“Pāpaṁ mĕ katan”-ti tappati,
bhiyyo tappati duggatiṁ gato.
Here he suffers, after death he suffers,
the wicked one suffers in both places,
he suffers, thinking: “I have done evil,”
gone to a bad fate, he suffers much more.
The Good Take Delight
The lay supporter Anāthapiṇḍika had three daughters; the youngest, after calling her father ‘younger brother’, died; the Buddha explained that Anāthapiṇḍika was her junior in the Dhamma, as she had attained the second stage of Awakening, and had been reborn in the Tusita Heaven, and he spoke this verse about her.
18 . Idha nandati, pecca nandati,
katapuñño ubhayattha nandati,
“Puññaṁ mĕ katan”-ti nandati,
bhiyyo nandati suggatiṁ gato.
Here she’s happy, after death she’s happy,
the righteous one’s happy in both places,
she’s happy, thinking: “I have done merit,”
gone to a good fate, she’s happy much more.
Practice What You Have Learned
Two friends ordained, one followed the path of practice and soon attained; the other the path of study and became puffed up with pride; the Buddha showed how the one who attained could answer his questions much better than the one who studied, and he spoke these verses about them.
19 . Bahum-pi ce sahitaṁ bhāsamāno,
na takkaro hoti naro pamatto,
gopo va gāvo gaṇayaṁ paresaṁ,
na bhāgavā sāmaññassa hoti.
Even though reciting abundant scriptures
the heedless one, who does not what they say,
like a cowboy counting other’s cattle,
does not partake of the ascetic life.
20 . Appam-pi ce sahitaṁ bhāsamāno,
Dhammassa hoti anudhammacārī,
rāgañ-ca dosañ-ca pahāya mohaṁ,
sammappajāno suvimuttacitto,
anupādiyāno idha vā huraṁ vā,
sa bhāgavā sāmaññassa hoti.
Even though reciting only few scriptures,
but living in accordance with Dhamma,
abandoning greed, hate and delusion,
understanding aright, with mind released,
that one, unattached here and hereafter,
surely partakes of the ascetic life.
Yamakavaggo Paṭhamo
The Chapter about the Pairs, the First

----- 02 Heedfulness -----

Dhamma Verses
Appamādavaggo
2. The Chapter about Heedfulness
right click to download mp3
The Heedful Attain Nibbāna
King Udena had two queens, Sāmāvatī, who was a follower of the Buddha, and Māgandiyā, who was spurned by the Buddha; out of jealousy Māgandiyā brought about the destruction of Sāmāvatī and her five hundred followers, all of whom had attained stages of Awakening; Māgandiyā and her family, who were full of defilements, were put to death by the king; when what had happened was reported to the Buddha he spoke these verses about them.
21 . Appamādo amatapadaṁ, pamādo maccuno padaṁ,
appamattā na mīyanti, ye pamattā yathā matā.
Heedfulness is the deathless state,
heedlessness the state of the dead,
the heedful do not die, (but) those
who are heedless are as if dead.
22 . Etaṁ visesato ñatvā appamādamhi paṇḍitā,
appamāde pamodanti, Ariyānaṁ gocare ratā.
The wise, fully understanding
this in regard to heedfulness,
rejoice in heedfulness, delight
in the domain of Noble Ones.
23 . Te jhāyino sātatikā, niccaṁ daḷhaparakkamā,
phusanti dhīrā Nibbānaṁ, yogakkhemaṁ anuttaraṁ.
Those who meditate all the time
constant and firm in their effort,
those wise ones will reach Nibbāna,
the unsurpassed release from bonds.
The Fame of the Good Increases
Kumbhaghosaka was a rich man’s son who escaped his afflicted household during a plague; later he disguised himself as a poor man and worked for his living, but was recognised by the king, who honoured him and gave him his daughter in marriage; when he heard the story the Buddha spoke this verse about him.
24 . Uṭṭhānavato satīmato sucikammassa nisammakārino,
saññatassa ca Dhammajīvino appamattassa yasobhivaḍḍhati.
For he who is active, mindful,
pure in deeds and considerate,
self-controlled, living by Dhamma,
heedful, fame greatly increases.
The Intelligent Make an Island
When Elder Culla Panthaka could not remember even four lines of verse after three months trying, the Buddha asked him to rub a white cloth, which subsequently became soiled and gave him initial insight into impermanence; the Buddha then taught him that the mind is also defiled and must be cleansed, and he soon attained deliverance, after which the Buddha spoke this verse about him.
25 . Uṭṭhānen’ appamādena saṁyamena damena ca,
dīpaṁ kayirātha medhāvī yaṁ ogho nābhikīrati.
Through activity, heedfulness,
through self-control and through restraint,
the sage should make an island that
no flood waters can overcome.
Heedfulness Is Our Greatest Wealth
During a seven-day festival of fools in Sāvatthi the people used to go round insulting and disrespecting everyone they met; the Buddha’s supporters asked him to stay at the monastery for the duration and they sent almsfood there; this is the teaching the Buddha gave them when it was over.
26 . Pamādam-anuyuñjanti bālā dummedhino janā,
appamādañ-ca medhāvī dhanaṁ seṭṭhaṁ va rakkhati.
Foolish, stupid people
cultivate heedlessness,
the sage guards heedfulness
just as his greatest wealth.
27 . Mā pamādam-anuyuñjetha mā kāmaratisanthavaṁ,
appamatto hi jhāyanto pappoti vipulaṁ sukhaṁ.
Do not cultivate heedlessness,
do not take delight in pleasure,
the heedful one, meditating,
surely attains great happiness.
The Heedful Stand on Heights
Elder Mahākassapa, after collecting his almsfood, sat in meditation and tried to understand in all its breadth the rising and falling away of living beings; the Buddha advised him that only Buddhas have such thorough knowledge, and then he spoke this verse.
28 . Pamādaṁ appamādena yadā nudati paṇḍito,
paññāpāsādam-āruyha, asoko sokiniṁ pajaṁ,
pabbataṭṭho va bhummaṭṭhe dhīro bāle avekkhati.
When the wise one eliminates
heedlessness with his heedfulness,
and mounts the palace of wisdom,
griefless, he looks on grieving people;
the wise one, like one standing on
a mountain, looks down on the fools,
who are standing on the plains.
The Heedful Speed Ahead
Two monks were given a meditation subject by the Buddha; one spent his time on monastic duties like sweeping, while the other was diligent and became an Arahat; after the Rains Retreat the Buddha commended him and spoke this verse about him.
29 . Appamatto pamattesu, suttesu bahujāgaro,
abalassaṁ va sīghasso hitvā, yāti sumedhaso.
Heedful amongst the heedless ones,
wakeful amongst the ones who sleep,
like a swift horse who abandons
a weak horse, the true sage moves on.
Heedfulness Is Praised
Prince Magha did good works in his village and inspired thirty-three others to join him; later they were reborn as Sakka and his company; the Buddha spoke this verse explaining what had happened.
30 . Appamādena Maghavā devānaṁ seṭṭhataṁ gato,
appamādaṁ pasaṁsanti, pamādo garahito sadā.
Through heedfulness did Maghavā
attain leadership of the gods,
the good always praise heedfulness,
but heedlessness is always blamed.
Heedfulness Consumes the Fetters
A monk was given a meditation subject but could make no progress, so he determined to return to the Buddha; on his way he saw a great fire burn down a forest, and the Buddha appeared to him and taught him with this verse.
31 . Appamādarato bhikkhu, pamāde bhayadassivā,
saṁyojanaṁ aṇuṁ-thūlaṁ ḍahaṁ aggīva gacchati.
A monastic who delights in
heedfulness, seeing danger in
heedlessness, advances like fire
against the fetter, small or large.
The Heedful Are Close to Nibbāna
Nigamavāsī Tissa lived near Sāvatthi and after he ordained he only went to his local village for alms; the monks blamed him but the Buddha praised him for being frugal and content, and spoke this verse praising his way of life.
32 . Appamādarato bhikkhu, pamāde bhayadassivā,
abhabbo parihānāya: Nibbānasseva santike.
A monastic who delights in
heedfulness, seeing danger in
heedlessness, does not fall away:
he is well-nigh to Nibbāna.
Appamādavaggo Dutiyo
The Chapter about Heedfulness, the Second

----- 03 Mind -----

Dhamma Verses
Cittavaggo
3. The Chapter about the Mind
right click to download mp3
The Wise Steady Their Minds
The Buddha’s attendant Meghiya left the Buddha alone against his wishes, and went and meditated in a mango grove; his mind was overcome with defilements and the Buddha taught him with these verses at the conclusion of which he attained Stream-entry.
33 . Phandanaṁ capalaṁ cittaṁ, dūrakkhaṁ dunnivārayaṁ,
ujuṁ karoti medhāvī, usukāro va tejanaṁ.
An agitated and unsteady mind,
difficult to guard, difficult to ward,
the sagacious one will make straight,
as a fletcher does his arrow.
34 . Vārijo va thale khitto, oka-m-okata ubbhato,
pariphandatidaṁ cittaṁ, Māradheyyaṁ pahātave.
Like a fish thrown up on dry land,
pulled out from its watery home,
mind is agitated, one ought
to throw off the sway of Māra.
The Mind Should Be Restrained
A female lay disciple supported some monks during the Rains Retreat and was given a meditation subject herself, with which she attained the third stage of Awakening; later a monk went to her and realised she knew his every thought, and was scared by that, but the Buddha told him to reside near her, and he taught him about the mind with this verse; soon he became an Arahat.
35 . Dunniggahassa lahuno yatthakāmanipātino,
cittassa damatho sādhu, cittaṁ dantaṁ sukhāvahaṁ.
For the mind that is difficult
to subdue, flighty, and flitting
where’er it will, restraint is good,
a restrained mind brings happiness.
The Mind Should Be Well Guarded
Anupubba was a faithful householder who fulfilled his duties to the monastics, and later was ordained himself, but became weary with all the rules and regulations; the Buddha told him his real duty was only to guard his mind, and further taught him with this verse.
36 . Sududdasaṁ sunipuṇaṁ yatthakāmanipātinaṁ,
cittaṁ rakkhetha medhāvī, cittaṁ guttaṁ sukhāvahaṁ.
Hard to see and very subtle,
and flitting wherever it will,
the sage should surely guard the mind,
a guarded mind brings happiness.
Controlling the Mind Leads to Escape
Saṅgharakkhita ordained as a monk and received robes, one of which he wished to give to an elder, his uncle; the elder had no need for it though and refused it; Elder Saṅgharakkhita daydreamed about returning to the household life, and was distressed when his daydream was exposed, but the Buddha taught him as follows.
37 . Dūraṅgamaṁ ekacaraṁ, asarīraṁ guhāsayaṁ,
ye cittaṁ saññam-essanti, mokkhanti Mārabandhanā.
Those who will restrain the mind that
roams far away, and is lonesome,
without a body, hidden, gain
release from the bonds of Māra.
Develop a Mind Free from Perplexity
Cittahattha wavered continually between being a monk and a householder, but eventually he saw into the truth of impermanence, ordained yet again and became an Arahat; the Buddha spoke these verses about him.
38 . Anavaṭṭhitacittassa, Saddhammaṁ avijānato,
pariplavapasādassa, paññā na paripūrati.
For the one with unsettled mind,
who does not know the True Dhamma,
whose confidence is wavering,
wisdom is surely unfulfilled.
39 . Anavassutacittassa, ananvāhatacetaso,
puññapāpapahīnassa natthi jāgarato bhayaṁ.
For the one with mind free of lust,
with mind unperplexed,
for the one who has abandoned
making merit and demerit,
for the watchful, there is no fear.
Understanding and Wisdom Overcome Māra
Five hundred monks were invited to stay in a forest for the Rains Retreat, but the tree spirits were not happy, and drove them away; the Buddha taught the monks the discourse about loving-kindness, they returned, and the spirits served their needs; the monks developed insight and the Buddha then gave this teaching.
40 . Kumbhūpamaṁ kāyam-imaṁ viditvā,
nagarūpamaṁ cittam-idaṁ ṭhapetvā,
yodhetha Māraṁ paññāvudhena,
jitañ-ca rakkhe, anivesano siyā.
Knowing this body is frail like a jar,
establishing the mind like a fortress,
fight Māra with the weapon of wisdom,
guard your success, and do not be attached.
The Body Is Impermanent
Someone who had been a fowler in a previous life ordained, and became known as Elder Tissa, but not long after his body developed all kinds of sores; the Buddha washed his body, taught the following verse and he became an Arahat, before dying for the last time.
41 . Aciraṁ vatayaṁ kāyo paṭhaviṁ adhisessati,
chuddho apetaviññāṇo, niratthaṁ va kaliṅgaraṁ.
Before long has passed by, alas,
this body will lie on the ground,
rejected, without consciousness,
just like a useless piece of wood.
The Dangers of a Badly-Directed Mind
When the Buddha saw the cow-herder Nanda was ready he taught him the gradual path, and he attained Stream-entry, but shortly afterwards he was shot by a hunter and died; the Buddha then taught this verse.
42 . Diso disaṁ yan-taṁ kayirā, verī vā pana verinaṁ –
micchāpaṇihitaṁ cittaṁ pāpiyo naṁ tato kare.
Whatever an aggressor might
do to an aggressor, or an
enemy to an enemy –
a mind that’s badly-directed
can do far worse than that to him.
The Benefits of a Well-Directed Mind
A merchant’s son, Soreyya, developed lust for Elder Mahākaccāyana and was transformed into a woman; later, after asking pardon, he became a man again, ordained and soon became an Arahat; the Buddha explained what a well-directed mind can do for one.
43 . Na taṁ mātā pitā kayirā, aññe vā pi ca ñātakā,
sammāpaṇihitaṁ cittaṁ seyyaso naṁ tato kare.
Mother and father might not do
for him, or other relatives,
as much good as a mind that is
well-directed can do for him.
Cittavaggo Tatiyo
The Chapter about the Mind, the Third

----- 05 Fools -----

Dhamma Verses
Bālavaggo
5. The Chapter about Fools
right click to download mp3
The Long Journey in Births and Deaths
King Pasenadi was overcome with desire for another man’s wife and sought to have him killed; during the night he woke to the sound of four people screaming; the Buddha explained they were adulterers in their previous lives and did no good deeds, and then he spoke this verse.
60 . Dīghā jāgarato ratti, dīghaṁ santassa yojanaṁ,
dīgho bālānaṁ saṁsāro Saddhammaṁ avijānataṁ.
Long is the night for one awake,
long is a league for one tired,
long is the round of births and deaths
for fools who know not True Dhamma.
No Friendship with Fools
A faithless pupil of Elder Mahākassapa, after numerous other acts of deceit, tricked a supporter into giving him food and drinks which he said were needed by the elder; after being rebuked he burned down the elder’s hut, ran away and was later reborn in Avīci, the relentless hell; the Buddha then gave this advice.
61 . Carañ-ce nādhigaccheyya seyyaṁ sadisam-attano,
ekacariyaṁ daḷhaṁ kayirā: natthi bāle sahāyatā.
If while roaming one cannot find
one better or same as oneself,
one should resolve to go alone:
there can be no friendship with fools.
There Is No Real Ownership
The millionaire miser Ānanda was reborn in great poverty and distress, and had to beg for his meals; he returned to his previous home, but was thrown out by his son; the Buddha then asked Ānanda to show his son where he buried his gold, and his son converted; the Buddha then spoke this verse.
62 . “Puttā matthi, dhanam-matthi,” iti bālo vihaññati,
attā hi attano natthi, kuto puttā, kuto dhanaṁ?
“Sons are mine, and riches are mine,”
so the fool suffers vexation,
when even self is not his own,
how then sons, and how then riches?
The Fool Who Knows He’s a Fool
Two thieves went to listen to the Dhamma; one of them attained a stage of Awakening, the other managed to undo a knot in someone’s clothes and steal some pennies; when this was reported to the Buddha he spoke this verse in explanation.
63 . Yo bālo maññati bālyaṁ, paṇḍito vāpi tena so,
bālo ca paṇḍitamānī, sa ve bālo ti vuccati.
The fool who knows his foolishness,
is at least wise in that matter,
the fool who’s proud of his wisdom,
is said to be a fool indeed.
Fools Cannot Learn
Elder Udāyi lived with the Buddha, but when questioned by visiting monks it was found he did not know even the fundamentals of the teaching; they told this to the Buddha, who spoke this verse.
64 . Yāvajīvam-pi ce bālo paṇḍitaṁ payirupāsati,
na so Dhammaṁ vijānāti, dabbī sūparasaṁ yathā.
Even if a fool attends on
a wise man for his whole life long,
he does not learn Dhamma, just as
spoon learns not the taste of curry.
The Wise Can Easily Learn
The thirty youths from Pāṭheyyaka were amongst the Buddha’s first converts; later he taught them about the impossibility of knowing the beginning of the rounds of births and deaths, and they immediately became Arahats; the Buddha spoke this verse about them.
65 . Muhuttam-api ce viññū paṇḍitaṁ payirupāsati,
khippaṁ Dhammaṁ vijānāti, jivhā sūparasaṁ yathā.
If a perceptive man attends
on a wise man for a second,
he quickly learns Dhamma, just as
the tongue learns the taste of curry.
Fools Are Their Own Worst Enemy
The leper Suppabuddha heard the Dhamma and attained Stream-entry, but was killed by a cow soon after, and was reborn in heaven; the Buddha explained that together with three others, he had killed a cow in a previous existence, and that the cow had vowed revenge; the Buddha then spoke this verse.
66 . Caranti bālā dummedhā amitteneva attanā,
karontā pāpakaṁ kammaṁ, yaṁ hoti kaṭukapphalaṁ.
Stupid fools live having
themselves as their own foes,
committing wicked deeds,
which produce bitter fruit.
Deeds That Are Not Well Done
The Buddha warned a farmer regarding a thousand gold coins dropped by a thief in his field; the farmer covered them over and continued ploughing; some people investigating the robbery traced the thieves to his field and uncovered the coins and he was arrested; the Buddha affirmed the farmer’s innocence and spoke this verse.
67 . Na taṁ kammaṁ kataṁ sādhu, yaṁ katvā anutappati,
yassa assumukho rodaṁ, vipākaṁ paṭisevati.
That deed is not at all well done,
which, having done, one has regret,
for which he has tears on his face,
as the result follows him round.
Deeds That Are Well Done
The flower seller Sumana delivered flowers to the king each day, but one day when he saw the Buddha he sprinkled the flowers over him, and they remained in the air around the Buddha and the whole city came out to see the spectacle; the Buddha predicted Sumana would never go to the lower worlds again and one day would become a Paccekabuddha, and spoke this verse in praise of his action.
68 . Tañ-ca kammaṁ kataṁ sādhu, yaṁ katvā nānutappati,
yassa patīto sumano, vipākaṁ paṭisevati.
But that deed is truly well done,
which, having done, one has no regret,
about which he is pleased and happy,
as the result follows him round.
The Ripening of Wickedness
A cousin of the nun Elder Uppalavaṇṇā hid in her forest dwelling and raped her when she returned; later the earth swallowed him up and he was reborn in Avīci, the relentless hell; the Buddha then gave this teaching.
69 . Madhuvā maññati bālo, yāva pāpaṁ na paccati,
yadā ca paccati pāpaṁ, bālo dukkhaṁ nigacchati.
The fool thinks it sweet, as long as
the wicked deed does not ripen,
but when the wicked deed ripens,
the fool undergoes suffering.
Ascetism Is Useless Without Dhamma
For many years the naked ascetic Jambuka ate excrement and slept on the floor yet convinced his devotees that he only ate food from a grass-tip and never slept, until the Buddha confronted him with his deceit; Jambuka repented, ordained and soon became an Arahat; the Buddha spoke this verse to Jambuka’s devotees.
70 . Māse māse kusaggena bālo bhuñjetha bhojanaṁ,
na so saṅkhātadhammānaṁ kalaṁ agghati soḷasiṁ.
From month to month the fool may eat
food with the tip of kusa-grass,
but he’s not worth a sixteenth part
of those who have mastered Dhamma.
Deeds Do Not Ripen at Once
A man burned down the hut of a Paccekabuddha and eventually was reborn as a snake-ghost, burning for the whole length of his long body, as was seen by Elder Moggallāna; the Buddha confirmed the story, and gave this teaching.
71 . Na hi pāpaṁ kataṁ kammaṁ, sajju khīraṁ va muccati,
ḍahantaṁ bālam-anveti, bhasmacchanno va pāvako.
A wicked deed that has been done,
like milk, does not turn all at once,
smouldering, it follows the fool,
like a fire covered with ashes.
Learning Only Hurts a Fool
A young man learned the art of stone-throwing, but used it to kill a Paccekabuddha; he was reborn in Avīci, the hell of relentless suffering, and later as a ghost whose head was constantly crushed by sixty-thousand sledgehammers; the Buddha explained what happens to fools who gain knowledge with this verse.
72 . Yāvad-eva anatthāya ñattaṁ bālassa jāyati,
hanti bālassa sukkaṁsaṁ, muddham-assa vipātayaṁ.
Learning arises for a fool
only to his disadvantage,
it destroys the fool’s good fortune,
it will destroy his very head.
A Bad Person Wishes for Preeminence
The householder Citta sought to give alms to the two chief Disciples, but the jealous resident monk Elder Sudhamma felt offended and refused to attend; the Buddha admonished him with these verses and he soon became an Arahat.
73 . Asataṁ bhāvanam-iccheyya, purekkhārañ-ca bhikkhusu,
āvāsesu ca issariyaṁ, pūjā parakulesu ca:
The bad man may wish for respect,
and status amongst monastics,
control in the living quarters,
worship amongst good families:
74 . “Mameva kata’ maññantu gihī pabbajitā ubho,
mameva ativasā assu, kiccākiccesu kismici”,
iti bālassa saṅkappo, icchā māno ca vaḍḍhati.
“Householders and renunciants
should both think this was done by me,
let them all be under my sway,
in all to be done and not done”,
so does the fool think, meanwhile
his desires and conceit increase.
One Should Not Delight in Honour or Gain
The seven year old boy Tissa ordained under Elder Sāriputta, and later, spurning gains and the attentions of his relatives, retired into solitude, and quickly became an Arahat; the Buddha spoke this verse about him.
75 . Aññā hi lābhūpanisā, aññā Nibbānagāminī,
evam-etaṁ abhiññāya bhikkhu Buddhassa sāvako
sakkāraṁ nābhinandeyya, vivekam-anubrūhaye.
For the means to gains is one thing,
the way to Nibbāna another,
thus knowing this the disciple
of the Buddha should not delight
in honours, but practise alone.
Bālavaggo Pañcamo
The Chapter about Fools, the Fifth

----- 06 Wise -----

Dhamma Verses
Paṇḍitavaggo
6. The Chapter about the Wise
right click to download mp3
One Should Stay with One Who Reproves You Wisely
The monks did not want to ordain a poor Brahmin, Rādha, but the Buddha, seeing his potential, allowed it; Elder Sāriputta gave him guidance which he followed to the letter and soon became an Arahat; the Buddha then spoke this verse about being amenable to admonition.
76 . Nidhīnaṁ va pavattāraṁ yaṁ passe vajjadassinaṁ,
niggayhavādiṁ medhāviṁ tādisaṁ paṇḍitaṁ bhaje;
tādisaṁ bhajamānassa seyyo hoti na pāpiyo.
One should see one who shows your faults
just like one who points out treasure,
one should keep company with such
a sagacious, learned person;
keeping company with such is
surely better for you, not worse.
One Should Give Advice
The Buddha asked the Chief Disciples to advise and instruct some of their wayward disciples; some accepted the advice, some returned to lay life, and others were later expelled; the Buddha spoke this verse by way of instruction.
77 . Ovadeyyānusāseyya, asabbhā ca nivāraye,
sataṁ hi so piyo hoti, asataṁ hoti appiyo.
One should both advise and instruct,
and forbid whatever is vile,
for it is dear to the good,
but it is not dear to the bad.
Who to Keep Company With
Elder Channa was always abusing the Chief Disciples; when the Buddha found out he admonished him with this verse, but still he refused to refrain; at the Buddha’s bidding he was isolated by the monks, and he later repented and became an Arahat.
78 . Na bhaje pāpake mitte, na bhaje purisādhame,
bhajetha mitte kalyāṇe, bhajetha purisuttame.
One should not keep company with those wicked friends,
one should not keep company with the ignoble,
you should keep company with spiritual friends,
you should keep company with those superior.
The Wise Delight in the Dhamma
Elder Mahākappina, who was formerly a king, was given to exclaiming his delight, and the monks feared he was recalling the joys he had when king; the Buddha explained the true reason for his exclamations was delight in the Dhamma, and spoke this verse about him.
79 . Dhammapīti sukhaṁ seti, vippasannena cetasā,
Ariyappavedite Dhamme sadā ramati paṇḍito.
The one who drinks Dhamma lives well,
with a clear mind, the wise one will
always delight in the Dhamma
that is made known by the Noble.
The Wise Straighten Themselves Out
The novice Paṇḍita saw that irrigators, fletchers and carpenters mastered the objects they worked with, and realised that if they can master unconscious things, he could master his mind; by striving he did just that and became an Arahat; the Buddha then spoke this verse about him.
80 . Udakaṁ hi nayanti nettikā,
usukārā namayanti tejanaṁ,
dāruṁ namayanti tacchakā,
attānaṁ damayanti paṇḍitā.
Course-makers lead water,
fletchers straighten arrows,
carpenters straighten wood,
the wise master themselves.
The Wise Are Unperturbed
The elder Lakuṇṭaka Bhaddiya was a dwarf who became an Arahat; because of his condition the novices and others used to tease him, but he remained unmoved and the Buddha explained why this was so with this verse.
81 . Selo yathā ekaghano vātena na samīrati,
evaṁ nindāpasaṁsāsu na samiñjanti paṇḍitā.
Just as solid rock is
not shaken by the wind,
so the wise are not moved
by either blame or praise.
The Wise Are Clear and Confident
Kānā resented and reviled the monks for taking cakes she wanted to offer to her husband; but the Buddha showed they had only taken what was offered, and she gained faith and attained Stream-entry; the Buddha explained she had also been offended in a past life, and then spoke this verse.
82 . Yathā pi rahado gambhīro vippasanno anāvilo,
evaṁ Dhammāni sutvāna vippasīdanti paṇḍitā.
Like a lake that is deep and clear,
like a lake that is unruffled,
just so the wise are confident
after listening to Dhamma.
The Wise Are Untouched by Contacts
During a famine the Buddha and his monks lived frugally and without complaint; later rogues who lived off the leavings of the monks roamed around making a nuisance of themselves; the Buddha praised those who live restrained and spoke this verse.
83 . Sabbattha ve sappurisā cajanti,
na kāmakāmā lapayanti santo;
sukhena phuṭṭhā atha vā dukhena,
noccāvacaṁ paṇḍitā dassayanti.
True people surely everywhere renounce,
the good do not talk about sense-pleasures;
when touched by pleasure or by suffering,
the wise are not elated or depressed.
One Should Not Desire Success through Corruption
The householder Dhammika wanted to ordain, but his wife persuaded him for some time to delay it; eventually he ordained anyway, became an Arahat, and went back to teach his wife and son, who themselves ordained and became Arahats; the Buddha taught this verse with Elder Dhammika in mind.
84 . Na attahetu na parassa hetu,
na puttam-icche na dhanaṁ na raṭṭhaṁ –
na iccheyya adhammena samiddhim-attano;
sa sīlavā paññavā dhammiko siyā.
Not for one’s own sake and not for another’s sake,
not desiring a child, riches, or a kingdom –
he should not desire his success through corruption;
he should be both virtuous and wise and righteous.
Those Who Act on the Dhamma Will Go Beyond
Some people in Sāvatthī went to listen to Dhamma, but were overcome by lust, hatred or drowsiness, and none of them gained from it; the Buddha explained that this is quite common amongst people with this verse.
85-86 . Appakā te manussesu ye janā pāragāmino,
athāyaṁ itarā pajā tīram-evānudhāvati,
ye ca kho sammad-akkhāte Dhamme dhammānuvattino,
te janā pāram-essanti, maccudheyyaṁ suduttaraṁ.
Amongst humans few people go beyond,
the rest of the people run down the bank,
but those who live righteously, conforming
with this well-taught Dhamma, they go beyond
the realm of death, that which is hard to cross.
Developing Renunciation and Awakening
Fifty monks who passed the Rains Retreat in Kosala visited the Buddha in Sāvatthi after the Retreat and this is the inspiring teaching the Buddha gave them on that occasion.
87 . Kaṇhaṁ dhammaṁ vippahāya, sukkaṁ bhāvetha paṇḍito,
okā anokaṁ āgamma; viveke yattha dūramaṁ,
Having abandoned the dark state,
the wise should develop the bright,
having gone forth to homelessness
from home, living in solitude,
where it is hard to find delight.
88 . Tatrābhiratim-iccheyya, hitvā kāme akiñcano,
pariyodapeyya attānaṁ cittaklesehi paṇḍito.
One should take delight in that place,
having given up sense pleasures,
and having no possessions,
the wise one should then purify
the self of defilements of mind.
89 . Yesaṁ sambodhi-aṅgesu sammā cittaṁ subhāvitaṁ,
ādānapaṭinissagge anupādāya ye ratā,
khīṇāsavā jutimanto, te loke parinibbutā.
For those who have well developed
the factors of awakening,
having given up grasping, those who
delight in being unattached,
pollutant-free and shining forth,
are emancipated here.
Paṇḍitavaggo Chaṭṭho
The Chapter about the Wise, the Sixth

----- 08 Thousands -----

Dhamma Verses
Sahassavaggo
8. The Chapter about the Thousands
right click to download mp3
One Useful Word Is Better
A man worked all his life as a public executioner and later had deep regret about his actions; Elder Sāriputta gave him just one teaching and he was reborn in Tusita Heaven; the monks wondered how this could be, and the Buddha spoke this verse to explain it.
100 . Sahassam-api ce vācā anatthapadasaṁhitā,
ekaṁ atthapadaṁ seyyo yaṁ sutvā upasammati.
Though there are a thousand sayings
consisting of quite useless words,
better is just one useful word
hearing which one is brought to peace.
One Useful Verse Is Better
Bāhiya Dārucīriya obtained a short teaching from the Buddha, became an Arahat and died straight afterwards; the Buddha appointed him as foremost amongst those who were quick to grasp the Teaching, and when the monks doubted it, he taught them with this verse.
101 . Sahassam-api ce gāthā anatthapadasaṁhitā,
ekaṁ gāthāpadaṁ seyyo yaṁ sutvā upasammati.
Though there are a thousand verses
consisting of quite useless words,
better is one word of a verse
hearing which one is brought to peace.
The One Who Conquers Himself Is Supreme
Kuṇḍalakesī, who had previously killed her husband and joined the Wanderers and expertly defended their doctrines, was converted by Elder Sāriputta with a simple teaching; the monks wondered how, and the Buddha spoke these verses to explain it.
102 . Yo ce gāthāsataṁ bhāse anatthapadasaṁhitā,
ekaṁ Dhammapadaṁ seyyo, yaṁ sutvā upasammati.
One may speak a hundred verses
consisting of quite useless words,
better is one verse of Dhamma,
hearing which one is brought to peace.
103 . Yo sahassaṁ sahassena saṅgāme mānuse jine,
ekañ-ca jeyya attānaṁ, sa ve saṅgāmajuttamo.
One may conquer a thousand men
a thousand times in a battle,
but having conquered one’s own self,
one would be supreme in battle.
The One Who Conquers Self Cannot Be Defeated
A Brahmin admitted to earning his living through gambling, and the Buddha explained that gains in this way are no true gains, but those who overcame themselves are truly victorious, and then he gave him this teaching.
104-105 . Attā have jitaṁ seyyo yā cāyaṁ itarā pajā,
attadantassa posassa, niccaṁ saññatacārino,
neva devo na gandhabbo, na Māro saha Brahmunā,
jitaṁ apajitaṁ kayirā tathārūpassa jantuno.
Conquest over self is better
than that over other people,
for the one who conquers himself,
who lives constantly well-restrained,
neither gods, nor Gandhabbas, nor
Māra together with Brahmas,
can turn conquest into defeat
for a person who is like this.
Worshipping Those Worthy Is Better than Alms
Elder Sāriputta asked the Buddha to teach his uncle, who supported the Jainas, the true way to the Brahma world; and this is the verse with which he taught them.
106 . Māse māse sahassena yo yajetha sataṁ samaṁ;
ekañ-ca bhāvitattānaṁ muhuttam-api pūjaye –
sā yeva pūjanā seyyo yañ-ce vassasataṁ hutaṁ.
One might give alms impartially
with a thousand coins of money
month by month for a hundred years;
and one might worship someone with
developed self for a second –
that worship is surely better
than the hundred-year sacrifice.
Worshipping Those Worthy Is Better than Sacrifice
Elder Sāriputta asked the Buddha to teach his nephew, who slayed animals and tended the sacrificial fire, the true way to the Brahma world, and the Buddha gave the teaching in this verse.
107 . Yo ca vassasataṁ jantu aggiṁ paricare vane;
ekañ-ca bhāvitattānaṁ muhuttam-api pūjaye –
sā yeva pūjanā seyyo yañ-ce vassasataṁ hutaṁ.
One person might care for the fire
in the woods for a hundred years;
and one might worship someone with
developed self for a second –
that worship is surely better
than the hundred-year sacrifice.
Worshipping the Upright Is Better
than alms or sacrifice
Elder Sāriputta asked the Buddha to teach his friend, who offered animals in sacrifice, the true way to the Brahma world, and the Buddha gave him this teaching.
108 . Yaṁ kiñci yiṭṭhaṁ ca hutaṁ ca loke
saṁvaccharaṁ yajetha puññapekkho,
sabbam-pi taṁ na catubhāgam-eti –
abhivādanā ujjugatesu seyyo.
Whatever the alms or the sacrifice
one seeking merit may give for a year,
that is not a quarter of the merit –
better is the worship of the upright.
The Benefits of Worshipping Elders
When the boy Dīghāyu was destined to die, the Buddha and the monks chanted protective verses for him and he lived on; the Buddha said long life is not the only thing a man received when he reverenced the elders, and then he taught them with this verse.
109 . Abhivādanasīlissa niccaṁ vaddhāpacāyino,
cattāro dhammā vaḍḍhanti: āyu vaṇṇo sukhaṁ balaṁ.
For the one who is constantly
worshipping honourable elders,
four things increase: the length of life,
beauty and happiness and strength.
One Day of Virtuous Living Is Better
Elder Sāriputta’s nephew Saṅkicca ordained as a novice, and when thirty monks’ lives were threatened by five hundred thieves he converted the thieves and they ordained; when he heard about it, this is the teaching the Buddha gave.
110 . Yo ca vassasataṁ jīve, dussīlo asamāhito,
ekāhaṁ jīvitaṁ seyyo, sīlavantassa jhāyino.
One might live for a hundred years,
unvirtuous and uncomposed,
but one day is better, for one
with virtue and meditation.
One Day of Wisdom Is Better
Elder Khāṇu Koṇḍañña, sitting in meditation, was unmoved when five hundred thieves piled up their stolen goods all over him at night; the thieves, impressed with his equanimity, converted and were ordained; this is the teaching the Buddha gave on that occasion.
111 . Yo ca vassasataṁ jīve, duppañño asamāhito,
ekāhaṁ jīvitaṁ seyyo, paññavantassa jhāyino.
One might live for a hundred years,
lacking in wisdom, uncomposed,
but one day is better, for one
with wisdom and meditation.
One Day of Striving Is Better
Elder Sappadāsa was dissatisfied and thought to end his life, but became an Arahat with the razor at his windpipe; when questioned by the monks the Buddha explained that one who truly strives can attain Awakening in an instant, and he spoke this verse.
112 . Yo ca vassasataṁ jīve, kusīto hīnavīriyo,
ekāhaṁ jīvitaṁ seyyo, viriyam-ārabhato daḷhaṁ.
One might live for a hundred years,
indolent, with less energy,
but one day is better, for one
with energy set up and firm.
Better to See Rise and Fall
Paṭācārā ran away from home with one of her slaves, had two children and lost them both, along with her husband, parents and brother in one day; she went mad and by and by approached the Buddha who, recognising she was ready for Awakening, taught her about the endless sorrow of births and deaths, and then spoke this verse hearing which she became an Arahat.
113 . Yo ca vassasataṁ jīve apassaṁ udayabbayaṁ,
ekāhaṁ jīvitaṁ seyyo passato udayabbayaṁ.
One might live for a hundred years
without seeing rise and fall,
but a life of one day’s better
for the one seeing rise and fall.
Better to See the Deathless
When Kisā Gotamī sought medicine for her dead son, the Buddha asked her to bring mustard seeds from a house that has never seen death; she learned during her quest that everyone dies, and the Buddha taught her further with this verse.
114 . Yo ca vassasataṁ jīve apassaṁ amataṁ padaṁ,
ekāhaṁ jīvitaṁ seyyo passato amataṁ padaṁ.
One might live for a hundred years
without seeing the deathless state,
but a life of one day’s better
for one seeing the deathless state.
Better to See the Supreme State
A good lay disciple, Bahuputtikā, was despised by her children and decided to ordain and was very resolute in her practice; the Buddha gave this teaching and she attained Awakening.
115 . Yo ca vassasataṁ jīve apassaṁ dhammam-uttamaṁ,
ekāhaṁ jīvitaṁ seyyo passato dhammam-uttamaṁ.
One might live for a hundred years
without seeing the supreme state,
but a life of one day is better
for one seeing the supreme state.
Sahassavaggo Aṭṭhamo
The Chapter about the Thousands, the Eighth

----- 09 Wickedness -----

Dhamma Verses
Pāpavaggo
9. The Chapter about Wickedness
right click to download mp3
The One Quick in Merit Prospers
A Brahmin had only one robe, and hesitated to give it to the Buddha, but eventually in the last watch of the night he did give it, and he was richly rewarded by the king; the Buddha explained his reward would have been greater had he not hesitated, and spoke this verse.
116 . Abhittharetha kalyāṇe, pāpā cittaṁ nivāraye,
dandhaṁ hi karato puññaṁ pāpasmiṁ ramatī mano.
Hasten to do wholesome deeds,
ward off the mind from wickedness,
for the mind of the one slow in
merit delights in wickedness.
One should be restrained from what is wrong
Elder Seyyasaka was unable to maintain his chastity and broke the same rule again and again; when the Buddha was informed, he reminded him to keep the precepts and reproved him with this verse.
117 . Pāpañ-ce puriso kayirā, na taṁ kayirā punappunaṁ,
na tamhi chandaṁ kayirātha, dukkho pāpassa uccayo.
Should a person do that which is wicked,
he should not do it again and again,
let him not place his intention in it,
for suffering grows for the wicked one.
One Should Do Good Deeds
A young woman working in the fields gave parched rice to Elder Mahākassapa and was thereby reborn in Tusita Heaven; she desired to do more good deeds for Elder Mahākassapa, but was restrained by him; the Buddha explained the reason for her motivation with this verse.
118 . Puññañ-ce puriso kayirā, kayirāthetaṁ punappunaṁ,
tamhi chandaṁ kayirātha, sukho puññassa uccayo.
If a person should make merit, he should
do it again and again, let him place
his intention there, there is an increase
of joy for the one who has made merit.
Eventually All Get What They Deserve
A goddess in the house of Anāthapiṇḍika advised him to stop supporting the Buddha and his disciples as he was being brought to poverty; Anāthapiṇḍika reproved the goddess and sent her out of his house; later she recovered the householder’s fortune and apologised; he took her to the Buddha who taught them both with these verses.
119 . Pāpo pi passati bhadraṁ yāva pāpaṁ na paccati,
yadā ca paccati pāpaṁ atha pāpo pāpāni passati.
The wicked experience good fortune
while the wickedness done does not ripen,
but when the wickedness ripens then the
wicked will experience wicked things.
120 . Bhadro pi passati pāpaṁ yāva bhadraṁ na paccati,
yadā ca paccati bhadraṁ atha bhadro bhadrāni passati.
The fortunate experience wickedness
as long as the fortune does not ripen,
but when the fortune ripens then the
fortunate experience good fortune.
Do Not Despise Wickedness
A monk refused to look after his requisites, thinking them not worth the trouble; the Buddha told him he should not think in that way and admonished him with this verse.
121 . Māppamaññetha pāpassa: na maṁ taṁ āgamissati,
udabindunipātena udakumbho pi pūrati,
bālo pūrati pāpassa, thokaṁ thokam-pi ācinaṁ.
One should not despise wickedness
thinking: it will not come to me,
through the falling of water drops
the water-pot is quickly filled,
the fool, gathering bit by bit,
soon becomes full of wickedness.
Do Not Despise Merit
A wise man heard the Buddha preach on the merit of giving and encouraging giving, invited the Buddha and the monks for alms, and then requested others to help in the deed; the foolish merchant Biḷālapāda thought the man shouldn’t offer more than he can himself fulfil, and gave but little, but later feared he would be exposed for his stinginess; the wise man however praised all who gave, the fool repented and the Buddha gave this teaching.
122 . Māppamaññetha puññassa: na maṁ taṁ āgamissati.
udabindunipātena udakumbho pi pūrati,
dhīro pūrati puññassa, thokathokam-pi ācinaṁ.
One should not despise one’s merit
thinking: it will not come to me,
through the falling of water drops
the water-pot is quickly filled,
the wise, gathering bit by bit,
will soon become full of merit.
Avoiding Wickedness Like Poison
The merchant Mahādhana set out with five hundred wagons but learned there are thieves ahead and thieves behind, and so stayed put in a village; this was told to the Buddha who drew the lesson therefrom and spoke this verse.
123 . Vāṇijo va bhayaṁ maggaṁ, appasattho mahaddhano,
visaṁ jīvitukāmo va, pāpāni parivajjaye.
Like a merchant on fearful path,
with few friends and great wealth, as one
loving life would avoid poison,
so should one avoid wicked deeds.
The One Without a Wound
The Buddha taught Kukkuṭamitta the hunter, his seven sons and seven daughters, and they all gained Stream-entry; the Buddha also explained that the hunter’s wife attained Stream-entry while still young; the monks asked how can anyone who has Stream-entry help a hunter, and the Buddha explained the matter with this verse.
124 . Pāṇimhi ce vaṇo nāssa hareyya pāṇinā visaṁ,
nābbaṇaṁ visam-anveti, natthi pāpaṁ akubbato.
If there is no wound in his hand
he can carry poison with it,
poison does not enter without
a wound, there is no bad result
for the one who does not do wrong.
Offending the Inoffensive
The hunter Koka blamed a monk for his failure to catch game and he set his dogs on him, chasing him up a tree; the monk’s robe fell over the hunter and the dogs mistakenly devoured him instead; the monk worried whether his actions led to the death of the man, and the Buddha reassured him with this verse.
125 . So appaduṭṭhassa narassa dussati,
suddhassa posassa anaṅgaṇassa,
tam-eva bālaṁ pacceti pāpaṁ,
sukhumo rajo paṭivātaṁ va khitto.
One offends against the inoffensive,
a purified and passionless person,
that wicked deed then returns to the fool,
like fine dust that is thrown against the wind.
The Destination According to Kind
Although Elder Tissa had received alms from a jeweller for a dozen years, when a heron swallowed a gem the jeweller accused Tissa of theft and started torturing him to get a confession; only when the heron was killed by accident does Elder Tissa reveal who took it, and he then passed away of his injuries; the Buddha explained the destiny of those involved with this verse.
126 . Gabbham-eke ’papajjanti, nirayaṁ pāpakammino,
saggaṁ sugatino yanti, parinibbanti anāsavā.
Some are reborn in the womb, but those who
are wicked in the underworld,
the righteous go to heaven, those who are
pollutant-free are emancipated.
There Is Nowhere to Hide from One’s Deeds
Three different groups of monks who were on their way to the Buddha saw a crow die in mid-air, a woman drowned on a voyage and themselves get buried in a cave; they asked the Buddha why it all happened, and he explained there is nowhere to escape from the results of bad actions, and spoke this verse.
127 . Na antalikkhe, na samuddamajjhe,
na pabbatānaṁ vivaraṁ pavissa:
na vijjatī so jagatippadeso
yatthaṭṭhito mucceyya pāpakammā.
Neither in the sky, nor in the ocean,
nor after entering a mountain cleft:
there is no place found on this earth where one
is free from the results of wicked deeds.
There Is Nowhere to Hide from Death
Suppabuddha the Sākiyan was the Buddha’s father-in-law, but was very arrogant and obstructed the Buddha when he was on almsround, which led to the Buddha predicting the time and place of his death; Suppabuddha thought he could escape his fate, but he met it anyway; the Buddha spoke this verse explaining the matter.
128 . Na antalikkhe, na samuddamajjhe,
na pabbatānaṁ vivaraṁ pavissa:
na vijjatī so jagatippadeso,
yatthaṭṭhitaṁ nappasahetha maccu.
Neither in the sky, nor in the ocean,
nor after entering a mountain cleft:
there is no place found on this earth in which
death does not completely overcome one.
Pāpavaggo Navamo
The Chapter about Wickedness, the Ninth

----- 10 Stick -----

Dhamma Verses
Daṇḍavaggo
10. The Chapter about the Stick
right click to download mp3
Comparing Oneself with Others
The group of six monks fought with and chased off the group of seventeen monks, and took their rooms; the Buddha laid down a rule against violence and spoke the following verse.
129 . Sabbe tasanti daṇḍassa, sabbe bhāyanti maccuno,
attānaṁ upamaṁ katvā, na haneyya na ghātaye.
Everyone trembles at the stick,
everyone is in fear of death,
comparing oneself with others,
one should not hurt or have them hurt.
Comparing Oneself with Others
The group of six monks fought with and chased off the group of seventeen monks, and took their rooms, which caused the latter to threaten them; the Buddha laid down a rule against threatening, and spoke this verse.
130 . Sabbe tasanti daṇḍassa, sabbesaṁ jīvitaṁ piyaṁ,
attānaṁ upamaṁ katvā, na haneyya na ghātaye.
Everyone trembles at the stick,
for all of them their life is dear,
comparing oneself with others,
one should not hurt or have them hurt.
The Desire for Happiness
As the Buddha went on his almsround he saw a group of boys who were beating a snake to ward it off; he admonished them not to hurt other beings with this verse.
131 . Sukhakāmāni bhūtāni yo daṇḍena vihiṁsati,
attano sukham-esāno, pecca so na labhate sukhaṁ.
One who harms with a stick beings
who also desire happiness,
while seeking happiness himself,
won’t find happiness after death.
132 . Sukhakāmāni bhūtāni yo daṇḍena na hiṁsati,
attano sukham-esāno, pecca so labhate sukhaṁ.
One who harms not with a stick those
who also desire happiness,
while seeking happiness himself,
will find happiness after death.
Do Not Retaliate
Elder Kuṇḍadhāna was followed round by a goddess due to his behaviour in a previous existence, and the monks, thinking he was breaking his vow of chastity, incited the king to drive him out; the king believed in his innocence though and gave him an invitation; the monks blamed Elder Kuṇḍadhāna and he, unjustly, blamed them in return; the Buddha admonished him thus.
133 . Māvoca pharusaṁ kañci, vuttā paṭivadeyyu’ taṁ,
dukkhā hi sārambhakathā, paṭidaṇḍā phuseyyu’ taṁ.
Don’t say anything harsh, spoken
to they might answer back to you,
arrogant talk brings misery,
and they might strike you with a stick.
134 . Sace neresi attānaṁ kaṁso upahato yathā,
esa pattosi Nibbānaṁ, sārambho te na vijjati.
If you make no sound like a gong
that is broken, you are like
one who has attained Nibbāna,
contention is not to be found.
Life Is Driven Out by Old Age and Death
The great lay supporter Visākhā asked five hundred women why they observed the fast-day; they answered they did so because they want a husband, children, release from their husbands or heaven; the Buddha explained that despite all their suffering most beings still only desire rebirth, and then he spoke this verse.
135 . Yathā daṇḍena gopālo gāvo pāceti gocaraṁ,
evaṁ jarā ca maccu ca āyuṁ pācenti pāṇinaṁ.
Like a cowherd with stick
drives cattle to pasture,
so do old age and death
drive life out of beings.
The Fool Suffers through His Deeds
A leading supporter of the Buddha Kassapa recognised a thief as such, and the scoundrel conceived a grudge which led him to commit many wicked deeds, including burning his fields and burning down the Perfumed Cottage; he went to hell and was later reborn in the world of the ghosts where Elder Moggallāna saw him; the Buddha explained how he got there, and spoke this verse.
136 . Atha pāpāni kammāni karaṁ bālo na bujjhati,
sehi kammehi dummedho aggidaḍḍho va tappati.
The fool does not yet understand
the wicked deeds he is doing,
the stupid one is consumed by
his deeds as by a burning fire.
The Fruit of Unjust Punishment
Elder Moggallāna was murdered by brigands acting on behalf of the naked ascetics; the Buddha explained that in a past life, being swayed by his wife he had murdered his parents, which was why he died in this way in the present life, and then he spoke these verses.
137 . Yo daṇḍena adaṇḍesu appaduṭṭhesu dussati
dasannam-aññataraṁ ṭhānaṁ khippam-eva nigacchati:
Whoever offends with a stick
those who are inoffensive and
harmless will quickly fall into
one of the following ten states:
138 . vedanaṁ pharusaṁ, jāniṁ, sarīrassa ca bhedanaṁ,
garukaṁ vā pi ābādhaṁ, cittakkhepaṁ va pāpuṇe,
harsh feelings and loss of his wealth,
and the break up of the body,
or even heavy affliction,
or surely he will lose his mind,
139 . rājato vā upassaggaṁ, abbhakkhānaṁ va dāruṇaṁ,
parikkhayaṁ va ñātīnaṁ, bhogānaṁ va pabhaṅguraṁ,
there may be danger from the king,
or slander that is terrible,
he may suffer from loss of kin,
or from the destruction of wealth,
140 . atha vāssa agārāni aggi ḍahati pāvako,
kāyassa bhedā duppañño nirayaṁ so upapajjati.
also his houses may be consumed
by flames and fire, and at the death
of the body that foolish one
will arise in the underworld.
Asceticism Is Not Enough
A householder went forth, but first has a cottage built for himself, with provisions stored up, slaves and many requisites so as to live comfortably; the monks complained to the Buddha who reproved the monk; in a tiff the monk threw off his robe and out of spite declared he would go around half-naked; the Buddha reproved him yet again with this verse.
141 . Na naggacariyā na jaṭā na paṅkā,
nānāsakā thaṇḍilasāyikā vā,
rājo ca jallaṁ ukkuṭikappadhānaṁ,
sodhenti maccaṁ avitiṇṇakaṅkhaṁ.
Not nakedness, matted hair, mud,
fasting, lying on stony ground,
dust, dirt, or striving while squatting,
can purify a mortal who
has not removed uncertainty.
Character Is All Important
The minister Santati was given a rich reward by the king, including a dancing girl, but later she died; distressed, Santati went to the Buddha who gave him a teaching whereby he attained Nibbāna and soon after passed away still dressed in his finery; the monks asked whether he can be considered a Brahmin or an ascetic, and the Buddha confirmed his status with this verse.
142 . Alaṅkato ce pi samaṁ careyya,
santo danto niyato brahmacārī,
sabbesu bhūtesu nidhāya daṇḍaṁ,
so brāhmaṇo so samaṇo sa bhikkhu.
Even if he were to adorn himself,
but is peaceful, trained, settled, spiritual,
and has put aside the stick, he is a
Brahmin, an ascetic, a monastic.
The Restrained Are Aware of Their Faults
The poor man Pilotika was ordained by Elder Ānanda, grew fat and discontented, and thought to return to the lay life; but finding his previous rags he took them as a meditation subject and soon became an Arahat; the Buddha confirmed his status to the monks and spoke these verses.
143 . Hirīnisedho puriso koci lokasmi’ vijjati,
yo nindaṁ appabodhati, asso bhadro kasām-iva.
Whatever person in the world
is restrained by conscience, and is
aware of his fault, is like a
good horse that is restrained by whip.
144 . Asso yathā bhadro kasāniviṭṭho,
ātāpino saṁvegino bhavātha.
Saddhāya sīlena ca vīriyena ca,
samādhinā Dhammavinicchayena ca.
Sampannavijjācaraṇā patissatā,
pahassatha dukkham-idaṁ anappakaṁ.
Like a good horse restrained by whip,
you should be ardent and intense.
Having faith, virtue, energy,
concentration, investigation.
One who has understanding and
good conduct, also mindfulness,
will surely abandon this not
insignificant suffering.
The Mild Straighten Themselves Out
The novice Sukha saw that irrigators, fletchers and carpenters mastered the objects they worked with, and realised if they can master unconscious things, he could master his mind; he asked his teacher Elder Sāriputta to bring his food, and by striving alone he became an Arahat; the Buddha then spoke this verse about him.
145 . Udakaṁ hi nayanti nettikā,
usukārā namayanti tejanaṁ,
dāruṁ namayanti tacchakā,
attānaṁ damayanti subbatā.
Course-makers lead water,
fletchers straighten arrows,
carpenters straighten wood,
the mild master themselves.
Daṇḍavaggo Dasamo
The Chapter about the Stick, the Tenth

----- 12 Self -----

Dhamma Verses
Attavaggo
12. The Chapter about the Self
right click to download mp3
One should guard oneself well
Prince Bodhi invited the Buddha for the first meal in his new palace, and put down cloth thinking if the Buddha stepped on it he would be blessed with children; the Buddha refused to walk on it, and explained that Prince Bodhi would be without children because of a past life in which he failed to protect himself by keeping precepts during any of the three periods of his life, and he then gave the teaching in this verse.
157 . Attānañ-ce piyaṁ jaññā rakkheyya naṁ surakkhitaṁ,
tiṇṇam-aññataraṁ yāmaṁ paṭijaggeyya paṇḍito.
If one regards oneself as dear
one should guard oneself well, during
one of three watches of the night
the wise person should stay alert.
Only the wise should advise
Elder Upananda preached well but was a greedy monk who always took the biggest offering, one day he swindled two monks out of a blanket, and the Buddha explained that one should train oneself before preaching to others, and summarised his teaching with this verse.
158 . Attānam-eva paṭhamaṁ patirūpe nivesaye,
athaññam-anusāseyya, na kilisseyya paṇḍito.
First one should establish oneself
in what is suitable, then one
can advise another, the wise one
should not have any defilement.
Train another only when well-trained oneself
Elder Padhānika Tissa took five hundred monks with him and went to the forest; at night he urged them three times to put forth effort, but he himself went to sleep; the monks, being worn out, made no progress; the Buddha spoke this verse about the elder.
159 . Attānañ-ce tathā kayirā yathaññam-anusāsati,
sudanto vata dametha, attā hi kira duddamo.
He should do as he would advise
another to do, then being
well-trained, he could train another,
for self is difficult to train.
The self when trained is a true friend
A woman took ordination unaware that she was pregnant; when the child was born King Pasenadi offered to bring him up, and he became known as Kumāra Kassapa; later he ordained and became an Arahat; he also helped his Mother give up her affection for him and attain insight; the Buddha then spoke this verse.
160 . Attā hi attano nātho, ko hi nātho paro siyā?
Attanā va sudantena nāthaṁ labhati dullabhaṁ.
For the self is the friend of self,
for what other friend would there be?
When the self has been well-trained, one
finds a friend that is hard to find.
Wickedness arises from oneself
The householder Mahā Kāla listened to an all-night Dhamma teaching at Jetavana, but in the morning was beaten to death by people who mistook him for a thief; the Buddha explained that he had caused the unjust death of another in a previous life, and his bad deed had caught up with him, and gave the teaching in this verse.
161 . Attanā va kataṁ pāpaṁ, attajaṁ attasambhavaṁ,
abhimatthati dummedhaṁ vajiraṁ vasmamayaṁ maṇiṁ.
That wickedness done by oneself,
born and arising in oneself,
crushes the one who is stupid,
as diamond a rock-jewel.
A lack of virtue is worse than an enemy
Devadatta sought to kill the Buddha and take over the running of the Saṅgha; the Buddha explained that he also tried to kill him in other existences, but it all worked to Devadatta’s downfall, and then he spoke this verse about him.
162 . Yassa accantadussīlyaṁ māluvā Sālam-ivotataṁ
karoti so tathattānaṁ yathā naṁ icchatī diso.
The one who lacks virtue,
like deadly creeper on tree,
makes himself just as his
foe wishes him to be.
Good is hard to do
Devadatta caused a split in the Saṅgha and informed Elder Ānanda, who related it to the Buddha; the Buddha explained how easy it is to do what is wrong, and summarised the teaching with this verse.
163 . Sukarāni asādhūni, attano ahitāni ca,
yaṁ ve hitañ-ca sādhuñ-ca taṁ ve paramadukkaraṁ.
Easily done are things not good,
unbeneficial for oneself,
but that which is beneficial
is exceedingly hard to do.
Reviling the Noble bears unpleasant fruit
Elder Kāla was a good preacher but sought to prevent his supporter from listening to the Buddha, thinking she would abandon him; she went to listen anyway, and he followed her, thinking to persuade the Buddha not to teach deep teachings to her; the Buddha rebuked him and spoke this verse.
164 . Yo sāsanaṁ arahataṁ Ariyānaṁ Dhammajīvinaṁ
paṭikkosati dummedho diṭṭhiṁ nissāya pāpikaṁ,
phalāni kaṭṭhakasseva attaghaññāya phallati.
Whoever reviles the worthy teaching
of the Noble Ones who live by Dhamma,
that stupid one, depending on wrong views,
like the bamboo when it bears fruit,
brings about his own destruction.
Purity and impurity come from oneself
The householder Culla Kāla listened to an all-night Dhamma preaching at Jetavana, but in the morning was beaten by people who mistook him for a thief; some courtesans interceded and they let him go; this was reported to the Buddha who gave the teaching in this verse.
165 . Attanā va kataṁ pāpaṁ, attanā saṅkilissati,
attanā akataṁ pāpaṁ, attanā va visujjhati,
suddhī asuddhī paccattaṁ, nāñño aññaṁ visodhaye.
By self is a wicked deed done,
by self is one defiled, by self
is a wicked deed left undone,
by oneself is one purified,
purity and impurity
come from oneself, for no one can
purify another person.
Do not neglect one’s own good
When Elder Attadattha heard the Buddha declare his intention to finally pass away in four months time, rather than attend on the Buddha, he went to the forest to practice the teaching; the Buddha lauded him and said this is how one truly honours him, and spoke this verse.
166 . Atta-d-atthaṁ paratthena bahunā pi na hāpaye;
atta-d-attham-abhiññāya sa-d-atthapasuto siyā.
One should not neglect one’s own good
for another’s, however great;
knowing what is good for oneself
one should be intent on that good.
Attavaggo Dvādasamo
The Chapter about the Self, the Twelfth

----- 14 Buddha -----

Dhamma Verses
Buddhavaggo
14. The Chapter about the Buddha
right click to download mp3
The Buddha Cannot Be Led Astray
For six years before the Awakening Māra pursued the Bodhisatta looking for an opening, but he found none; Māra was dejected, and his daughters finding out why, tried and failed to make the newly attained Buddha fall victim to lust; the Buddha rebuked them with these verses.
179 . Yassa jitaṁ nāvajīyati, -
jitaṁ assa no yāti koci loke,
tam-Buddham-anantagocaraṁ,
apadaṁ kena padena nessatha?
He whose victory cannot be undone,
whose victory no one here approaches,
the Buddha, whose range is surely endless,
by what path can you lead the pathless one?
180 . Yassa jālinī visattikā,
taṇhā natthi kuhiñci netave,
tam-Buddham-anantagocaraṁ,
apadaṁ kena padena nessatha?
For him there is no desire, attachment,
or craving that will lead him anywhere,
the Buddha, whose range is surely endless,
by what path can you lead the pathless one?
The Wise Are Envied by the Gods
After spending his seventh Rains Retreat in the Heaven of the Thirty-Three the Buddha descended on a staircase built by Sakka, lord of the gods, and Elder Sāriputta praised the Buddha in his glory; the Buddha explained the matter by reciting this verse.
181 . Ye jhānapasutā dhīrā, nekkhammūpasame ratā,
devā pi tesaṁ pihayanti, Sambuddhānaṁ satīmataṁ.
Those wise ones intent on meditation,
who love the peace of renunciation,
even the gods are envious of them,
the Sambuddhas, the ones who are mindful.
The Rare Things
A monk in the time of Buddha Kassapa died and was reborn as a Nāga; eventually he heard that a new Buddha has arisen in the world, and went and asked why he cannot attain rebirth as a human even after so long a time; this was the Buddha’s reply.
182 . Kiccho manussapaṭilābho, kicchaṁ maccāna’ jīvitaṁ,
kicchaṁ Saddhammasavanaṁ, kiccho Buddhānam-uppādo.
It is rare to be born human,
rare is the life of the mortals,
it is rare to hear True Dhamma,
rare the arising of Buddhas.
The Advisory Verses
Elder Ānanda asked the Buddha to explain how the previous Buddhas had kept the fast-day; he explained that although they held them after different lengths of time, the verses they recited were always the same as the following.
183 . Sabbapāpassa akaraṇaṁ, kusalassa upasampadā,
sacittapariyodapanaṁ - etaṁ Buddhāna’ sāsanaṁ.
Not doing anything wicked
undertaking of what is good,
purification of one’s mind
is the teaching of the Buddhas.
184 . Khantī paramaṁ tapo titikkhā,
Nibbānaṁ paramaṁ vadanti Buddhā,
na hi pabbajito parūpaghātī,
samaṇo hoti paraṁ viheṭhayanto.
Patience is the supreme austerity,
Nibbāna is supreme say the Buddhas,
for one gone forth does not hurt another,
nor does an ascetic harass others.
185 . Anupavādo anupaghāto, pātimokkhe ca saṁvaro,
mattaññutā ca bhattasmiṁ, pantañ-ca sayanāsanaṁ,
adhicitte ca āyogo - etaṁ Buddhāna’ sāsanaṁ.
Not finding fault and not hurting,
restraint by the regulations,
knowing the right measure of food,
living in a remote dwelling,
devotion to meditation
is the teaching of the Buddhas.
Money Cannot Bring Satisfaction
One monk had gained an inheritance of one hundred coins from his father and thought to return to the lay life; the Buddha pointed out that the money would not be enough to support himself, and related the Mandhātā Jātaka which shows that no matter how much a person has he will never be satisfied.
186-187 . Na kahāpaṇavassena titti kāmesu vijjati,
“Appassādā dukhā kāmā,” iti viññāya paṇḍito,
api dibbesu kāmesu ratiṁ so nādhigacchati.
Taṇhakkhayarato hoti Sammāsambuddhasāvako.
Not through coins is satisfaction
found for sense desires, the wise one
knowing: “Pleasures have little joy,
much suffering,” does not delight
even in heavenly pleasures.
The disciple of the Buddha
delights in craving’s destruction.
The True and Secure Refuge
Aggidatta was a Brahmin with many disciples, but he taught them to go for refuge to woods and mountains and the like; Elder Moggallāna impressed him with his powers and declared the Buddha even greater than himself; the Buddha taught that those who take refuge in the Triple Gem find the one true refuge.
188 . Bahuṁ ve saraṇaṁ yanti pabbatāni vanāni ca
ārāmarukkhacetyāni, manussā bhayatajjitā.
Many people shaken
by fear go for refuge
to woods, mountains, and to
tree shrines in pleasure parks.
189 . Netaṁ kho saraṇaṁ khemaṁ, netaṁ saraṇam-uttamaṁ,
netaṁ saraṇam-āgamma sabbadukkhā pamuccati.
That is not a secure refuge,
that is not the refuge supreme,
that is not the refuge that will
liberate from all suffering.
190 . Yo ca Buddhañ-ca Dhammañ-ca Saṅghañ-ca saraṇaṁ gato,
cattāri ariyasaccāni sammappaññāya passati:
Whoever has gone for refuge
to the Buddha, to the Dhamma
and to the Saṅgha, who sees with
right wisdom the four noble truths:
191 . Dukkhaṁ dukkhasamuppādaṁ dukkhassa ca atikkamaṁ,
ariyañ-caṭṭhaṅgikaṁ maggaṁ dukkhūpasamagāminaṁ.
Suffering, arising, and the
overcoming of suffering,
the eightfold noble path leading
to the stilling of suffering.
192 . Etaṁ kho saraṇaṁ khemaṁ, etaṁ saraṇam-uttamaṁ,
etaṁ saraṇam-āgamma sabbadukkhā pamuccati.
That is the one secure refuge,
that is the one refuge supreme,
that is the one refuge that will
liberate from all suffering.
The Person of Good Breed
Elder Ānanda reflected that the Buddha had taught them about the provenance of well-bred elephants and steeds, but not of well-bred people, so he asked about it, and the Buddha explained the matter with this verse.
193 . Dullabho purisājañño, na so sabbattha jāyati,
yattha so jāyate dhīro, taṁ kulaṁ sukham-edhati.
A person of good breed is rare,
that one is not born everywhere,
wherever that wise one is born,
that family gains happiness.
Where the Real Good Lies
The monks discussed what is the true good in the world, some said ruling, some said love, some said food; the Buddha explained that those things are within the realm of suffering, and then he pointed out what is truly good with this verse.
194 . Sukho Buddhānam-uppādo, sukhā Saddhammadesanā,
sukhā Saṅghassa sāmaggī, samaggānaṁ tapo sukho.
The arising of the Buddhas is good,
the teaching of the True Dhamma is good,
the harmony of the Saṅgha is good,
and devotion to harmony is good.
Worshipping the Worthy Has Boundless Merit
While the Buddha and his disciples were on walking tour they came to the shrine of Kassapa, a previous Buddha; one Brahmin came and paid homage to the shrine, but not to the Buddha or his disciples; the Buddha lauded the Brahmin for his act of faith but said it is even better to worship those still living who are worthy of worship.
195-196 . Pūjārahe pūjayato, Buddhe yadi va sāvake,
papañcasamatikkante, tiṇṇasokapariddave;
te tādise pūjayato, nibbute akutobhaye,
na sakkā puññaṁ saṅkhātuṁ, imettam-api kenaci.
For those who worship those worthy,
whether Buddhas or disciples,
with impediments overcome,
free of grief and lamentation;
for those who worship such as these,
the emancipated, fearless,
none can measure their vast merit,
saying: it is as much as this.
Buddhavaggo Cuddasamo
The Chapter about the Buddha, the Fourteenth

----- 15 Happiness -----

Dhamma Verses
Sukhavaggo
15. The Chapter about Happiness
right click to download mp3
Living Happily, Without Pollutants
The Sākiyans and the Koliyans were kindred tribes who nearly fell into a war over short water supplies; the Buddha, in order to prevent bloodshed, went to them and gave them this teaching, following which they relented.
197 . Susukhaṁ vata jīvāma verinesu averino,
verinesu manussesu viharāma averino.
Let us live on without hatred,
amongst those who do have hatred,
amongst humans who have hatred
let us now live without hatred.
198 . Susukhaṁ vata jīvāma āturesu anāturā,
āturesu manussesu viharāma anāturā.
Let us live on without sickness,
amongst those who do have sickness,
amongst humans who have sickness
let us now live without sickness.
199 . Susukhaṁ vata jīvāma ussukesu anussukā
ussukesu manussesu viharāma anussukā.
Let us live on without longing,
amongst those who do have longing,
amongst humans who have longing
let us now live without longing.
Living Like the Gods
One festival day the Buddha went to the village for alms, but due to Māra taking possession of the people in the village he received nothing; Māra then taunted the Buddha, who rebuked him with this verse.
200 . Susukhaṁ vata jīvāma yesaṁ no natthi kiñcanaṁ,
pītibhakkhā bhavissāma devā Ābhassarā yathā.
We can live happily enough
having no possessions ourselves,
we will feed on joy like
the gods of Streaming Light.
The Truly Happy One
The King of Kosala is defeated three times by his nephew Ajātasattu, the King of Magadha, and took to his bed in sorrow and despair; when the Buddha heard about it he gave this teaching.
201 . Jayaṁ veraṁ pasavati, dukkhaṁ seti parājito,
upasanto sukhaṁ seti, hitvā jayaparājayaṁ.
The victor generates hatred,
the defeated one finds suff’ring,
the one at peace lives happily,
without victory and defeat.
The Happiness of Peace
The Buddha and the monastics were invited to a wedding, and the bride served them with all due attention; the groom, however, was overcome with lust and could pay no attention to his duties; the Buddha spoke this verse to him.
202 . Natthi rāgasamo aggi, natthi dosasamo kali,
natthi khandhasamā dukkhā, natthi santiparaṁ sukhaṁ.
There is no bonfire like passion,
there is no offence like hatred,
there is no suffering like the
components of mind and body,
no happiness other than peace.
The Greatest Good
The Buddha saw that a poor man was ready to attain Stream-entry, and went with the monastics to give him teachings; the man however spent the whole morning seeking his lost ox; the Buddha ordered that the tired man be fed first, and only later did he teach him; afterwards he spoke this verse to the monastics.
203 . Jighacchā paramā rogā, saṅkhāraparamā dukhā,
etaṁ ñatvā yathābhūtaṁ, Nibbānaṁ paramaṁ sukhaṁ.
Hunger is the supreme sickness,
conditions are the supreme suffering,
knowing this as it really is,
know that Nibbāna is the supreme good.
The Greatest Things
King Pasenadi was always overeating and suffering for it so the Buddha had the king’s nephew learn and recite a verse which reminded the king to be moderate; later the king told the Buddha he was cured, and the Buddha recited the following verse.
204 . Ārogyaparamā lābhā, santuṭṭhi paramaṁ dhanaṁ,
vissāsā paramā ñāti, Nibbānaṁ paramaṁ sukhaṁ.
Health is the supreme gain,
content the supreme wealth,
faith is the supreme kin,
Nibbāna supreme good.
The Taste of Solitude
When Elder Tissa heard the Buddha declare his intention to finally pass away in four months time, rather than attend on the Buddha, he went to the forest to practice the teaching; the Buddha lauded him and said this is how one truly honours him, and spoke this verse.
205 . Pavivekarasaṁ pitvā, rasaṁ upasamassa ca,
niddaro hoti nippāpo, Dhammapītirasaṁ pivaṁ.
Savouring the taste of solitude,
and savouring the taste of peace,
he is fearless, faultless, savouring
the joyful taste of the Dhamma.
Seeing Noble Ones
When the Buddha lay ill Sakka, lord of the gods, came to minister to him; the monks wondered why, and the Buddha explained how he had previously answered Sakka’s questions who thereby became a Stream-enterer; the Buddha summarised Sakka’s affection with these verses.
206 . Sāhu dassanam-ariyānaṁ, sannivāso sadā sukho,
adassanena bālānaṁ niccam-eva sukhī siyā.
Meeting the noble ones is good, and
living together is pleasant,
through not meeting foolish people
one will constantly be happy.
207 . Bālasaṅgatacārī hi dīgham-addhāna’ socati,
dukkho bālehi saṁvāso amitteneva sabbadā,
dhīro ca sukhasaṁvāso ñātīnaṁ va samāgamo.
For he who consorts with fools grieves
for a long time, dwelling with fools
is always suffering as it
is with enemies, the wise one
dwells happily as with his kin.
tasmā hi,
208. dhīrañ-ca paññañ-ca bahussutañ-ca,
dhorayhasīlaṁ vatavantam-ariyaṁ –
taṁ tādisaṁ sappurisaṁ sumedhaṁ
bhajetha nakkhattapathaṁ va candimā.
therefore, the firm, the wise and the learned,
the virtuous, dutiful and noble –
keep company with such a true person
as the moon accompanies the stars.
Sukhavaggo Paṇṇarasamo
The Chapter about Happiness, the Fifteenth

----- 16 Love -----

Dhamma Verses
Piyavaggo
16. The Chapter about Love
right click to download mp3
Hold Nothing As Loved
In quick succession a son, his father and mother all retired from the world and became monastics, but even after ordination they were inseparable; the Buddha told them this was not suitable for monastics and admonished them with this verse.
209 . Ayoge yuñjam-attānaṁ, yogasmiñ-ca ayojayaṁ,
atthaṁ hitvā piyaggāhī, pihetattānuyoginaṁ.
Engaging in what is not suitable,
not engaging in what is suitable,
abandoning the good, grasping the loved,
he envies the person who endeavours.
210 . Mā piyehi samāgañchī appiyehi kudācanaṁ,
piyānaṁ adassanaṁ dukkhaṁ, appiyānañ-ca dassanaṁ.
Do not associate at any time
with those who are loved, or with those unloved,
there is suffering not meeting those loved
and suffering from meeting those unloved.
211 . Tasmā piyaṁ na kayirātha, piyāpāyo hi pāpako.
Ganthā tesaṁ na vijjanti yesaṁ natthi piyāppiyaṁ.
Therefore do not hold anything as loved,
for losing those who are loved is loathsome.
There are no knots or attachments for those
who hold nothing as loved or as unloved.
When Free from Loving There Is No Fear
A layman greatly grieved over the loss of his son; the Buddha went to him and explained that the wise of old, understanding the nature of things, did not grieve, and then he spoke this verse.
212 . Piyato jāyatī soko, piyato jāyatī bhayaṁ,
piyato vippamuttassa natthi soko, kuto bhayaṁ?
From loving there arises grief,
from loving there arises fear,
for one who is free from loving
there is no grief, how is there fear?
When Free from Fondness There Is No Fear
The lay supporter Visākhā lost her granddaughter and was given over to grief; she went to the Buddha who explained that everyone must die and that if she had many relatives there would be no end of occasions for grief, and advised her further with this verse.
213 . Pemato jāyatī soko, pemato jāyatī bhayaṁ,
pemato vippamuttassa natthi soko, kuto bhayaṁ?
From fondness there arises grief,
from fondness there arises fear,
for one who is free from fondness
there is no grief, how is there fear?
When Free from Delight There Is No Fear
As the Buddha and the monks went for alms in Vesālī they saw the Licchavī princes dressed like gods going out with a courtesan; later they fought over her, and many were killed and wounded, and the Buddha explained the matter to the monks with this verse.
214 . Ratiyā jāyatī soko, ratiyā jāyatī bhayaṁ,
ratiyā vippamuttassa natthi soko, kuto bhayaṁ?
From delight there arises grief,
from delight there arises fear,
for one who is free from delight
there is no grief, how is there fear?
When Free from Desire There Is No Fear
A rich man’s son, Anitthigandha, had a image of a beautiful woman made from red gold and said he would only marry a woman its match; a young woman was found who surpassed the image, but she died on the way to meet him, sending the young man into grief; the Buddha explained why he was grieving with this verse.
215 . Kāmato jāyatī soko, kāmato jāyatī bhayaṁ,
kāmato vippamuttassa natthi soko, kuto bhayaṁ?
From desire there arises grief,
from desire there arises fear,
for one who is free from desire
there is no grief, how is there fear?
When Free from Craving There Is No Fear
A Brahmin farmer wishing for his fields to prosper decided to make the Buddha his partner; just before the crop was brought in floods washed it all away, and the farmer was inconsolable; the Buddha explained the origin of the farmer’s sorrow.
216 . Taṇhāya jāyatī soko, taṇhāya jāyatī bhayaṁ,
taṇhāya vippamuttassa natthi soko, kuto bhayaṁ?
From craving there arises grief,
from craving there arises fear,
for one who is free from craving
there is no grief, how is there fear?
The One Who Does What Is Necessary
Fifty youths were going out of Rājagaha carrying baskets of cakes, but did not think to offer any to the Buddha and the monks, until they saw Elder Mahākassapa, and then they offered him the cakes; the Buddha spoke this verse about Elder Mahākassapa.
217 . Sīladassanasampannaṁ, dhammaṭṭhaṁ saccavedinaṁ,
attano kamma’ kubbānaṁ, taṁ jano kurute piyaṁ.
Endowed with virtue and insight,
principled and knowing the truths,
doing the deeds that are his own,
that one the people truly love.
The One Who Has Gone Upstream
A monk attained the third stage of Awakening, but when questioned by his fellow monks, didn’t mention it as he first wanted to attain Arahatship; in the meantime he passed away and was reborn in the Pure Lands; his fellow monks lamented, thinking he had fallen short, but the Buddha explained his attainment with this verse.
218 . Chandajāto anakkhāte, manasā ca phuṭo siyā,
kāmesu ca appaṭibaddhacitto, ‘uddhaṁsoto’ ti vuccati.
The one with desire for the undeclared,
will be suffused with the awak’ning mind,
with a mind unconnected with pleasures,
he is spoken of as ‘one gone upstream’.
One’s Merits Will Follow One to the Next Life
The faithful householder Nandiya at Isipatana erected a building for the monastics and as he poured the water of donation a celestial mansion arose for him in the World of the Thirty-Three gods; Elder Moggallāna saw it and asked the Buddha about it, who explained the matter with this verse.
219 . Cirappavāsiṁ purisaṁ dūrato sotthim-āgataṁ,
ñātimittā suhajjā ca abhinandanti āgataṁ.
When one who lives abroad for a
long time comes safely from afar,
relatives and companions
come and greatly rejoice.
220 . Tatheva katapuññam-pi asmā lokā paraṁ gataṁ,
puññāni paṭigaṇhanti piyaṁ ñātīva āgataṁ.
Just so, when one who has merit
goes from this world unto the next,
his merits are received just as
relatives come to their loved one.
Piyavaggo Soḷasamo
The Chapter about Love, the Sixteenth

----- 17 Anger -----

Dhamma Verses
Kodhavaggo
17. The Chapter about Anger
right click to download mp3
One Who Has Nothing Has No Suffering Either
Elder Anuruddha had a sister named Rohiṇī, but when he returned to his family she didn’t come and serve him as she had a skin disease; the elder advised her to build a residence for the monks and, after she did that, her skin eruption subsided; the Buddha explained the past misdeed which caused her illness, and then spoke this verse.
221 . Kodhaṁ jahe, vippajaheyya mānaṁ,
saṁyojanaṁ sabbam-atikkameyya,
taṁ nāmarūpasmiṁ asajjamānaṁ,
akiñcanaṁ nānupatanti dukkhā.
One should abandon all anger,
one should abandon all conceit,
one should overcome every fetter,
without clinging to mind and form,
sufferings never do befall
the one having no possessions.
One Should Rein In Anger
Against the pleas of a Devatā a monk cut down a tree thereby injuring her child at the same time; the tree spirit at first thought to kill him, but restrained her anger and reported the matter to the Buddha instead, who spoke this verse and gave her a new tree to live in, and laid down a rule that monks should not injure trees and plants.
222 . Yo ve uppatitaṁ kodhaṁ rathaṁ bhantaṁ va dhāraye,
tam-ahaṁ sārathiṁ brūmi rasmiggāho itaro jano.
Whoever should hold back anger
just like a swerving chariot,
that one is a charioteer,
other people just rein-holders.
Overcoming Defilements with Their Opposites
Uttarā hired a courtesan to look after her husband’s needs, while she served the Buddha and his monks; the courtesan fell into a jealous rage and tried to burn Uttarā with boiling ghee, but the power of her loving-kindness prevented it from burning; the Buddha praised her actions with this verse.
223 . Akkodhena jine kodhaṁ, asādhuṁ sādhunā jine,
jine kadariyaṁ dānena, saccenālikavādinaṁ.
Through kindness one should overcome anger,
through goodness overcome lack of goodness,
through gifts one should overcome stinginess,
through truth one should overcome lying speech.
The Way to the Gods
Elder Moggallāna one day visited heaven and seeing celestial spirits in the mansions asked them how they got there; one replied she had spoken the truth, another had restrained her anger, and others had given but trifling gifts; the Buddha then spoke this verse in explanation.
224 . Saccaṁ bhaṇe, na kujjheyya, dajjāppasmim-pi yācito,
etehi tīhi ṭhānehi gacche devāna’ santike.
One should speak out the truth,
one should not get angry,
when requested then give,
if only a little,
through these three conditions
one can go to the gods.
Sages Go to Nibbāna
A Brahmin and his wife at Sāketa always addressed the Buddha as their son; the monks asked the Buddha why and he explained that they were his parents in fifteen hundred previous existences; at the end of one Rains Retreat the couple attained Nibbāna together, and the Buddha spoke this verse.
225 . Ahiṁsakā ye munayo, niccaṁ kāyena saṁvutā,
te yanti accutaṁ ṭhānaṁ, yattha gantvā na socare.
Those sages without violence,
constantly restrained in body,
go to the deathless Nibbāna,
having gone there they do not grieve.
The Wakeful Overcome the Pollutants
Puṇṇā was a slave girl who was given work that lasted into the night at which time she saw the monks being guided to their quarters by Elder Dabbamalla; when she met the Buddha the next day and offered him a cake he explained with this verse why the monks were awake.
226 . Sadā jāgaramānānaṁ, ahorattānusikkhinaṁ,
Nibbānaṁ adhimuttānaṁ, atthaṁ gacchanti āsavā.
For those who are always wakeful,
who train both by day and by night,
who are intent on Nibbāna,
the pollutants are laid to rest.
Those Who Are Blamed
The lay disciple Atula went with his entourage to see Elder Revata, who did not speak, Elder Sāriputta, who spoke at length, and Elder Ānanda who spoke moderately; but he was upset with them all; finally he went to the Buddha who explained the matter thus.
227 . Porāṇam-etaṁ, Atula, netaṁ ajjatanām-iva:
nindanti tuṇhim-āsīnaṁ, nindanti bahubhāṇinaṁ,
mitabhāṇim-pi nindanti, natthi loke anindito.
This is something of old, Atula,
this is not something of today:
they blame the one who sits silent,
they blame the one who talks a lot,
and one who talks moderately,
there is no one who is not blamed.
228 . Na cāhu na ca bhavissati, na cetarahi vijjati
ekantaṁ nindito poso, ekantaṁ vā pasaṁsito.
There was not and there will not be,
and at present there is not found
someone totally blameworthy,
or one totally praiseworthy.
229 . Yañ-ce viññū pasaṁsanti, anuvicca suve suve,
acchiddavuttiṁ medhāviṁ, paññāsīlasamāhitaṁ,
The one who, being examined
day by day, is praised by the wise,
faultless in conduct, sagacious,
attending to virtue and wisdom,
230 . nekkhaṁ jambonadasseva, ko taṁ ninditum-arahati?
Devā pi naṁ pasaṁsanti, Brahmunā pi pasaṁsito.
one who is like a golden coin,
who is there worthy to blame him?
That one is praised by the gods, and
has been praised by the Brahmas too.
One Should Be Restrained
The group of six monks, whose unrestrained behaviour was the occasion for the Buddha laying down many of the Vinaya rules, put on clogs and clattered around on a rock; the Buddha advised them with these verses.
231 . Kāyappakopaṁ rakkheyya, kāyena saṁvuto siyā,
kāyaduccaritaṁ hitvā, kāyena sucaritaṁ care.
One should guard one’s bodily anger,
one should be restrained bodily,
abandoning wrong bodily conduct,
one should have good bodily conduct.
232 . Vacīpakopaṁ rakkheyya, vācāya saṁvuto siyā,
vacīduccaritaṁ hitvā, vācāya sucaritaṁ care.
One should guard one’s verbal anger,
one should be restrained verbally,
abandoning wrong verbal conduct,
one should have good verbal conduct.
233 . Manopakopaṁ rakkheyya, manasā saṁvuto siyā,
manoduccaritaṁ hitvā, manasā sucaritaṁ care.
One should guard one’s mental anger,
one should be restrained mentally,
abandoning wrong mental conduct,
one should have good mental conduct.
234 . Kāyena saṁvutā dhīrā, atho vācāya saṁvutā,
manasā saṁvutā dhīrā, te ve suparisaṁvutā.
The wise are restrained bodily,
the wise are restrained verbally,
the wise are restrained mentally,
the wise are indeed well-restrained.
Kodhavaggo Sattarasamo
The Chapter about Anger, the Seventeenth

----- 18 Stains -----

Dhamma Verses
Malavaggo
18. The Chapter about Stains
right click to download mp3
Take Provisions on the Journey
An old man had never done any works of merit so his sons sent for him and made offerings to the Buddha and the Saṅgha in his name on two successive days; on the first the Buddha advised him with the first two verses, and on the second with the last two.
235 . Paṇḍupalāso va dāni ’si,
Yamapurisā pi ca taṁ upaṭṭhitā,
uyyogamukhe ca tiṭṭhasi,
pātheyyam-pi ca te na vijjati.
You are now like a withered leaf,
Yama’s men stand waiting for you,
you stand at decay’s door, with no
provisions for the journey found.
236 . So karohi dīpam-attano,
khippaṁ vāyama paṇḍito bhava,
niddhantamalo, anaṅgaṇo,
dibbaṁ ariyabhūmim-ehisi.
One should make an island oneself,
soon should the wise one endeavour,
removing the stain, blemishless,
you will go to the noble realm.
237 . Upanītavayo ca dāni ’si,
sampayāto ’si Yamassa santike,
vāso pi ca te natthi antarā,
pātheyyam-pi ca te na vijjati.
You are now quite advanced in age,
you have come to Yama’s presence,
there is nowhere to dwell, with no
provisions for the journey found.
238 . So karohi dīpam-attano,
khippaṁ vāyama paṇḍito bhava,
niddhantamalo anaṅgaṇo,
na punaṁ jātijaraṁ upehisi.
One should make an island oneself,
soon should the wise one endeavour,
removing the stain, blemishless,
you will not come to birth again.
The Gradual Purification
A Brahmin saw the monks waiting to go for alms, and each day improved the conditions where they gathered, until eventually he built a hall for them, and invited the Buddha and the monks for a meal; when the Buddha heard of his endeavours he spoke this verse.
239 . Anupubbena medhāvī, thokathokaṁ khaṇe khaṇe,
kammāro rajatasseva, niddhame malam-attano.
The sage gradually, gradually,
little by little, moment by moment,
should surely remove the stain from himself,
like a smith removes the stain from silver.
One’s Own Deeds Lead One On
A monk was so attached to his robes that when he died he was reborn as a louse in them; the monks went to divide his things, but the Buddha asked them to wait; after the monk was reborn again the Buddha told the monks to divide the robes, explained what had happened, and spoke this verse.
240 . Ayasā va malaṁ samuṭṭhitaṁ,
taduṭṭhāya tam-eva khādati,
evaṁ atidhonacārinaṁ –
sakakammāni nayanti duggatiṁ.
As a rust stain arises from iron,
and arisen it then eats it away,
so with one who is overindulgent –
his deeds lead him to a bad destiny.
What Brings about Ruination
Elder Lāḷudāyi was jealous of the Chief Disciples and declared himself also a Dhamma teacher; but when asked he didn’t know even one verse; when the Buddha found out he related a previous life story in which Lāḷudāyi also promoted himself unjustly and then he spoke this verse.
241 . Asajjhāyamalā mantā, anuṭṭhānamalā gharā,
malaṁ vaṇṇassa kosajjaṁ, pamādo rakkhato malaṁ.
Lack of repetition is the ruin of chants,
a lack of maintenance is the ruin of homes,
indolence is the ruin of one’s appearance,
heedlessness is the ruin of the one on guard.
The Greatest Stain
A youth got married but his wife was given to adultery and put the young man to shame; when he met the Buddha the latter reminded him that in a previous existence also he was betrayed by his wife, and then he taught him with this verse.
242 . Malitthiyā duccaritaṁ, maccheraṁ dadato malaṁ,
malā ve pāpakā dhammā asmiṁ loke paramhi ca.
Bad conduct is a woman’s stain,
stinginess is a giver’s stain,
wicked actions are indeed stains
both in this world and in the next.
243 . Tato malā malataraṁ, avijjā paramaṁ malaṁ,
etaṁ malaṁ pahatvāna, nimmalā hotha, bhikkhavo!
A stain that is worse than that stain,
ignorance is the supreme stain,
after abandoning that stain,
be without stains, O monastics!
Life Is Hard When Seeking Purity
Elder Culla Sāri gave medical treatment to others in exchange for a portion of food, which is against the right ways of earning his livelihood as laid down by the Buddha; when the Buddha heard of his behaviour he gave the teaching in these verses.
244 . Sujīvaṁ ahirikena, kākasūrena dhaṁsinā,
pakkhandinā pagabbhena, saṅkiliṭṭhena jīvitaṁ.
Life is light for one without shame,
with the bold courage of a crow,
living a life with backbiting,
recklessness, and with defilements.
245 . Hirīmatā ca dujjīvaṁ, niccaṁ sucigavesinā,
alīnenāpagabbhena, suddhājīvena passatā.
Life is hard when endowed with shame,
for the one seeking purity,
for one sincere, and not reckless,
looking for purity of life.
The Result of Not Keeping the Precepts
Some laymen were arguing as to which of the precepts is the hardest to keep; the Buddha told them they are all hard to keep, and explained the matter further with these verses.
246-247 . Yo pāṇam-atipāteti, musāvādañ-ca bhāsati,
loke adinnaṁ ādiyati, paradārañ-ca gacchati,
surāmerayapānañ-ca yo naro anuyuñjati,
idhevam-eso lokasmiṁ mūlaṁ khaṇati attano.
The one who kills living beings,
and speaks a word that is not true,
who takes what is not given here,
and who goes to another’s wife,
that person who is devoted
to a drink of liquor, beer and wine,
digs up his own root in the world.
248 . Evaṁ bho purisa jānāhi, pāpadhammā asaññatā,
mā taṁ lobho adhammo ca ciraṁ dukkhāya randhayuṁ.
Know it thus, dear sir, a lack of
restraint is a bad thing, let not
greed and corruption oppress you
with suffering for a long time.
How To Attain Concentration
The novice Tissa was always finding fault with the almsgiving of Anāthapiṇḍaka, Visākhā and other faithful disciples, and boasted his family gave better alms than they did; the monks found out he was the son of a lowly gate-keeper; the Buddha showed the monks how he tried to fool people in a previous life too, and taught them with this verse.
249 . Dadāti ve yathāsaddhaṁ, yathāpasādanaṁ jano,
tattha yo maṅku bhavati paresaṁ pānabhojane
na so divā vā rattiṁ vā, samādhiṁ adhigacchati.
The people give according to faith,
according to their confidence,
the one who is dejected through
food and drink given to others,
does not, either by day or night,
attain to good concentration.
250 . Yassa cetaṁ samucchinnaṁ, mūlaghaccaṁ samūhataṁ,
sa ve divā vā rattiṁ vā, samādhiṁ adhigacchati.
For the one in whom dejection
is cut off, destroyed at the root,
dug up, does, by day and by night,
attain to good concentration.
The Great Defilements
While the Buddha was preaching the Dhamma, one lay follower fell asleep, another scratched the earth, one shook a tree, another looked at the sky and only one listened attentively; the Buddha explained they were a snake, an earthworm, a monkey, an astrologer and a student of the Vedas in their previous births and behave accordingly now, and then he spoke this verse.
251 . Natthi rāgasamo aggi, natthi dosasamo gaho,
natthi mohasamaṁ jālaṁ, natthi taṇhāsamā nadī.
There is no fire quite like passion,
nothing that takes hold like hatred,
there is no snare like delusion,
and there is no flood like craving.
Seeing One’s Own Faults
The merchant Meṇḍaka wanted to see the Buddha when he was passing through, but the outside ascetics tried to persuade him not to by telling him falsely that he teaches there is no result of actions; Meṇḍaka went anyway and the Buddha taught him with this verse.
252 . Sudassaṁ vajjam-aññesaṁ, attano pana duddasaṁ,
paresaṁ hi so vajjāni opuṇāti yathā bhusaṁ,
attano pana chādeti, kaliṁ va kitavā saṭho.
Easy to see are others’ faults,
but one’s own fault is hard to see,
for one sifts other people’s faults
like chaff, but conceals one’s own faults,
like a cheat conceals his defeat.
The Fate of a Fault-Finder
Elder Ujjhānasaññī was always finding fault with the others, so the monks asked the Buddha about it; he remarked that one who is scrupulous is doing well, but one who enjoys finding fault makes no progress, and he taught them with this verse.
253 . Paravajjānupassissa niccaṁ ujjhānasaññino,
āsavā tassa vaḍḍhanti, ārā so āsavakkhayā.
One who looks for another’s faults,
who is an abject complainer,
for him the pollutants increase,
he is far from their destruction.
The Buddhas Are Free from Disturbance
Because of past deeds the wanderer Subhadda did not go to meet the Buddha until the latter was on his death-bed; Elder Ānanda wanted to stop him, but the Buddha allowed him to approach, and he asked three questions, the verses here being the reply; Subhadda was the last person ordained while the Buddha yet lived and he soon became an Arahat.
254 . Ākāse va padaṁ natthi, samaṇo natthi bāhire,
papañcābhiratā pajā, nippapañcā Tathāgatā.
There is no footprint in the sky,
no ascetic on the outside,
folk delight in impediments,
the Realised are free of them.
255 . Ākāse va padaṁ natthi, samaṇo natthi bāhire,
saṅkhārā sassatā natthi, natthi Buddhānam-iñjitaṁ.
There is no footprint in the sky,
no ascetic on the outside,
there are no constant conditions,
no disturbance for the Buddhas.
Malavaggo Aṭṭhārasamo
The Chapter about Stains, the Eighteenth

----- 20 Path -----

Dhamma Verses
Maggavaggo
20. The Chapter about the Path
right click to download mp3
The Confounding of Māra
Five hundred monks were discussing the many paths they had trod while on walking tour when the Buddha asked them their topic of discussion; on finding out he advised them with these verses not to worry about those paths but to follow the best of paths.
273 . Maggānaṭṭhaṅgiko seṭṭho, saccānaṁ caturo padā,
virāgo seṭṭho dhammānaṁ, dipadānañ-ca Cakkhumā.
The eightfold is the best of paths,
four principles the best of truths,
passionlessness the best of states,
the Visionary the best of men.
274 . Eso va maggo natthañño, dassanassa visuddhiyā,
etaṁ hi tumhe paṭipajjatha, Mārassetaṁ pamohanaṁ.
This the path, there is no other,
for insight and for purity,
you should enter upon this path,
for the confounding of Māra.
275 . Etaṁ hi tumhe paṭipannā dukkhassantaṁ karissatha,
akkhāto ve mayā maggo, aññāya sallasanthanaṁ.
Having entered upon this path
you make an end to suffering,
the path was declared by me, the
removal of darts by knowledge.
276 . Tumhehi kiccaṁ ātappaṁ akkhātāro Tathāgatā,
paṭipannā pamokkhanti jhāyino Mārabandhanā.
Your duty is to have ardour
declare the Realised Ones, on
this path meditators will be
released from the bonds of Māra.
The First Path to Purity
Five hundred monks strove hard but were unable to attain Arahatship, so they approached the Buddha for further teaching; seeing into their past lives and knowing they had previously meditated on impermanence, the Buddha gave them this teaching, after hearing which, they became Arahats.
277 . Sabbe saṅkhārā aniccā ti, yadā paññāya passati,
atha nibbindatī dukkhe – esa maggo visuddhiyā.
All conditions are impermanent,
when one sees this with deep wisdom,
then one grows tired of suffering,
this is the path to purity.
The Second Path to Purity
Five hundred monks strove hard but were unable to attain Arahatship, so they approached the Buddha for further teaching; seeing into their past lives and knowing they had previously meditated on suffering, the Buddha gave them this teaching, after hearing which, they became Arahats.
278 . Sabbe saṅkhārā dukkhā ti, yadā paññāya passati,
atha nibbindatī dukkhe – esa maggo visuddhiyā.
All conditions are suffering,
when one sees this with deep wisdom,
then one grows tired of suffering,
this is the path to purity.
The Third Path to Purity
Five hundred monks strove hard but were unable to attain Arahatship, so they approached the Buddha for further teaching; seeing into their past lives and knowing they had previously meditated on lack of self, the Buddha gave them this teaching, after hearing which, they became Arahats.
279 . Sabbe dhammā anattā ti, yadā paññāya passati,
atha nibbindatī dukkhe – esa maggo visuddhiyā.
All components are without self,
when one sees this with deep wisdom,
then one grows tired of suffering,
this is the path to purity.
The Lazy Do Not Find Wisdom
Five hundred monks were given a meditation subject and went to the forest to practice, but one of them dropped out straight away; later the diligent monks became Arahats and were invited to a meal; the lazy monk fell during the night and broke his thigh and the others missed their meal; the Buddha explained they were delayed in a previous life by the same person, and then spoke this verse.
280 . Uṭṭhānakālamhi anuṭṭhahāno,
yuvā balī, ālasiyaṁ upeto,
saṁsannasaṅkappamano kusīto –
paññāya maggaṁ alaso na vindati.
The one who has not timely energy,
youthful, strong, but given to laziness,
lacking right intention and indolent –
the lazy one does not find wisdom’s path.
Undertaking the Seers’ Path
Elder Moggallāna saw a ghost with a pig’s head and reported it to the Buddha who explained that in a previous life he was someone who broke up a sincere friendship, and after arising in Avīci, the hell of relentless suffering, was later reborn as a ghost with a pig’s head because of his misdeed, and then the Buddha spoke this verse.
281 . Vācānurakkhī manasā susaṁvuto,
kāyena ca akusalaṁ na kayirā,
ete tayo kammapathe visodhaye,
ārādhaye maggaṁ isippaveditaṁ.
Verbally guarded, well-restrained in mind,
not doing demerit with the body,
one should purify three paths of action,
and undertake the path shown by seers.
From Effort Arises Wisdom
Elder Poṭhila had been a reciter of the Tipiṭaka under all seven Buddhas, but had never truly put the teaching into practice, so the Buddha started calling him Empty Poṭhila; taking the hint he went far away to practice meditation, and later the Buddha appeared to him and spoke this verse to encourage him.
282 . Yogā ve jāyatī bhūri, ayogā bhūrisaṅkhayo,
etaṁ dvedhāpathaṁ ñatvā bhavāya vibhavāya ca,
tathattānaṁ niveseyya yathā bhūri pavaḍḍhati.
From effort arises wisdom,
without effort wisdom is lost,
having understood these two paths
of development and decline,
one should then establish oneself
so that one’s wisdom increases.
Cut Down the Forest of Desire
Some laymen heard the Buddha teaching and ordained in old age, but even after ordaining they still visited their families for meals; when a former wife of one of them died they fell into deep lamentation; the Buddha explained they did that also in previous lives as crows, and gave the monks this teaching.
283 . Vanaṁ chindatha mā rukkhaṁ, vanato jāyatī bhayaṁ,
chetvā vanañ-ca vanathañ-ca, nibbanā hotha bhikkhavo.
Cut down the forest and not just a tree,
from the forest arises a danger,
having cut down the forest and thicket,
you should be without forests, monastics.
284 . Yāva hi vanatho na chijjati
aṇumatto pi narassa nārisu,
paṭibaddhamano va tāva so,
vaccho khīrapako va mātari.
For as long as an atom of desire
of a man for a woman isn’t cut down,
for just so long is his mind in bondage,
like calf is in bondage to mother’s milk.
Cut Off Affection for the Self
Elder Sāriputta’s young disciple made no progress with his meditation subject so he took him to the Buddha, who, understanding his inclinations, gave him a different subject: to look upon a lotus flower, which soon disintegrated, giving the young monk insight into impermanence; the Buddha then appeared and gave this instruction.
285 . Ucchinda sineham-attano,
kumudaṁ sāradikaṁ va pāṇinā,
santimaggam-eva brūhaya
Nibbānaṁ Sugatena desitaṁ.
Cut off any affection for one’s self,
like an autumn lotus plucked with the hand,
develop fully the path to peace and
Nibbāna as taught by the Happy One.
A Fool Knows Not the Danger
The merchant Mahādhana arrived at Sāvatthi to sell his goods, and thought he will stay there all year round; the Buddha, however, saw that the merchant would die in seven days and sent Elder Ānanda to warn him; the merchant then gave meals to the Buddha and the Saṅgha, and on hearing the teaching in this verse attained Stream-entry before dying.
286 . “Idha vassaṁ vasissāmi, idha hemantagimhisu”,
iti bālo vicinteti, antarāyaṁ na bujjhati.
“Here I will dwell during the rains,
here during winter and summer”,
in just such a way a fool thinks,
not understanding the danger.
Attachment to Cattle and Children
Kisā Gotamī’s child died but she did not believe it and went round trying to find a cure; someone sent her to the Buddha who asked her to bring mustard seeds from a house that has never seen death; she was unable to, of course, and realised death is pervasive; the Buddha then taught her with this verse and she became a Stream-enterer.
287 . Taṁ puttapasusammattaṁ byāsattamanasaṁ naraṁ,
suttaṁ gāmaṁ mahogho va maccu ādāya gacchati.
That person whose mind is attached,
besotted by cattle and children,
is snatched away by death just as
a sleeping village by a flood.
Clear the Path to Nibbāna
After losing all her relatives in various disasters Paṭācārā also lost her mind; eventually she wandered into the presence of the Buddha who gave the teaching in this verse at which point she became a Stream-enterer.
288 . Na santi puttā tāṇāya, na pitā na pi bandhavā,
Antakenādhipannassa natthi ñātisu tāṇatā.
Children are not a true refuge,
nor fathers, and not kin, for one
overcome by the End-Maker
there’s no refuge in relatives.
289 . Etam-atthavasaṁ ñatvā, paṇḍito sīlasaṁvuto,
Nibbānagamanaṁ maggaṁ khippam-eva visodhaye.
Understanding the truth of this
the wise one, endowed with virtue,
should quickly purify the path
that is leading to Nibbāna.
Maggavaggo Vīsatimo
The Chapter about the Path, the Twentieth

----- 24 Craving -----

Dhamma Verses
Taṇhāvaggo
24. The Chapter about Craving
right click to download mp3
Similes about Craving
In the time of the Buddha Kassapa one Kapila went forth and was renowned as a great teacher, but would pronounce other monks wrong even when they were right just to disparage them; at the time of our Lord Buddha he was reborn as a fish with foul breath; he was caught and brought to the Buddha, who explained his fate and then spoke these verses.
334 . Manujassa pamattacārino
taṇhā vaḍḍhati māluvā viya,
so palavatī hurāhuraṁ
phalam-icchaṁ va vanasmi’ vānaro.
For a human who lives life heedlessly
craving increases like clinging creeper,
he rushes from one place to another
like a monkey desiring forest fruit.
335 . Yaṁ esā sahatī jammī taṇhā loke visattikā,
sokā tassa pavaḍḍhanti abhivaṭṭhaṁ va bīraṇaṁ.
That one who is overcome by
these low cravings and attachments
in the world, for him griefs increase
like grass that has had heavy rain.
336 . Yo cetaṁ sahatī jammiṁ taṇhaṁ loke duraccayaṁ,
sokā tamhā papatanti udabindu va pokkharā.
Whoever overcomes craving
in the world, which is difficult
to get past, griefs fall from him like
drops of water from a lotus.
337 . Taṁ vo vadāmi: “Bhaddaṁ vo yāvantettha samāgatā”,
taṇhāya mūlaṁ khaṇatha, usīrattho va bīraṇaṁ,
mā vo naḷaṁ va soto va Māro bhañji punappunaṁ.
This I say to you: “Good luck to
as many as have assembled”,
dig up the root of craving, like
one seeking the root digs up grass,
do not let Māra push you down
like a stream pushes down the reed.
Cutting Out Craving
One day the Buddha saw a sow and smiled; when Elder Ānanda asked him the reason for his smile he told of the various forms of existence that the sow had been through, including being reborn in the Brahma worlds in the life before this one; he then taught the monastics on the evils of craving with these verses.
338 . Yathā pi mūle anupaddave daḷhe
chinno pi rukkho, punar-eva rūhati,
evam-pi taṇhānusaye anūhate
nibbattatī dukkham-idaṁ punappunaṁ.
Just as when the root remains untroubled
though the tree was cut down, it grows again,
so when craving is not rooted out this
suffering appears again and again.
339 . Yassa chattiṁsatī sotā manāpassavanā bhusā,
vāhā vahanti duddiṭṭhiṁ saṅkappā rāganissitā.
He in whom the thirty-six streams
flow pleasantly and strong, the one
with wrong view, is carried away
by his passionate intentions.
340 . Savanti sabbadhī sotā, latā ubbhijja tiṭṭhati,
tañ-ca disvā lataṁ jātaṁ mūlaṁ paññāya chindatha.
Streams are flowing everywhere,
the creepers remain where they grow,
seeing this, cut the creeper’s root
that has arisen with wisdom.
341 . Saritāni sinehitāni ca
sŏmanassāni bhavanti jantuno,
te sātasitā sukhesino,
te ve jātijarūpagā narā.
There are flowing streams of affection and
mental happinesses for a person,
pleasure-dependent they seek happiness,
those people undergo birth and old age.
342 . Tasiṇāya purakkhatā pajā
parisappanti saso va bādhito,
saṁyojanasaṅgasattakā
dukkham-upenti punappunaṁ cirāya.
People surrounded by craving
crawl round like a hare in a trap,
attached and clinging to fetters
they come back again and again
to suffering for a long time.
343 . Tasiṇāya purakkhatā pajā
parisappanti saso va bādhito,
tasmā tasiṇaṁ vinodaye –
bhikkhu ākaṅkha’ virāgam-attano.
People surrounded by craving
crawl round like a hare in a trap,
therefore he should remove craving –
the monk who longs for dispassion.
Running Away from Freedom
A young monk who had high concentration attainments was enchanted by golden objects and decided to leave the monastic life; unable to find work he became a thief and was caught and sentenced to death; on his way to the execution ground he attained the fourth absorption; the Buddha appeared to him and taught him with this verse, and he became an Arahat and escaped his punishment.
344 . Yo nibbanatho vanādhimutto,
vanamutto vanam-eva dhāvati,
taṁ puggalam-etha passatha,
mutto bandhanam-eva dhāvati.
The one who is free from desires,
who is intent on the forest,
though free, runs back to the forest,
come here and look at that person,
though free, he runs back to bondage.
The Real Bondage
Some monks while on almsround saw various criminals in the prison house where they were bound with ropes and chains; they reported it to the Buddha who explained that these bonds are paltry compared to the bonds of craving, and he taught them further with these verses.
345-346 . Na taṁ daḷhaṁ bandhanam-āhu dhīrā,
yad-āyasaṁ dārujaṁ pabbajañ-ca,
sārattarattā maṇikuṇḍalesu
puttesu dāresu ca yā apekhā –
etaṁ daḷhaṁ bandhanam-āhu dhīrā,
ohārinaṁ sithilaṁ, duppamuñcaṁ,
etam-pi chetvāna paribbajanti
anapekkhino, kāmasukhaṁ pahāya.
That bondage is not so strong say the wise,
that is made of iron or wood or reeds,
impassioned and excited they seek out
jewels and earrings and children and wives –
that bondage is really strong say the wise,
dragging down the lax, hard to get free from,
having cut this down they wander about,
seeking nothing, abandoning pleasure.
The Wise Abandon Suffering
Queen Khemā, who was married to King Bimbisāra, was so intoxicated with her own beauty she would not visit the Buddha, but eventually she was persuaded into his presence by praise of the Bamboo Grove, where he was residing; the Buddha caused the image of a beautiful woman to go through the stages of decay in front of her, and then he taught her with this verse, upon hearing which, she became an Arahat.
347 . Ye rāgarattānupatanti sotaṁ
sayaṁkataṁ makkaṭako va jālaṁ,
etam-pi chetvāna vajanti dhīrā,
anapekkhino sabbadukkhaṁ pahāya.
Those who are impassioned follow the stream
like a spider a web made by itself,
having cut this away the wise proceed,
seeking nothing, abandoning suff’ring.
The Attractive Makes the Bond Firm
The merchant’s son Uggasena fell in love with an acrobat whom he saw performing, but her father would only give her to him if he joined them, which he readily agreed to do; later he learned acrobatics himself and performed in Rājagaha; this is the teaching the Buddha gave him, by which he became an Arahat.
348 . Muñca pure, muñca pacchato,
majjhe muñca, bhavassa pāragū,
sabbattha vimuttamānaso,
na punaṁ jātijaraṁ upehisi.
Be free of the past, future and present,
after crossing over all existence,
with mind liberated in ev’ry way,
you will not return to birth and old age.
Cutting Māra’s Bonds
When Elder Culla Dhanuggaha obtained water from the house of a young maiden she soon started giving him porridge also and striking up a conversation, and eventually he began to feel discontent; when the Buddha heard of the situation he described how this woman murdered him at the drop of a hat in a previous existence and further gave him this teaching.
349 . Vitakkapamathitassa jantuno
tibbarāgassa, subhānupassino,
bhiyyo taṇhā pavaḍḍhati,
esa kho daḷhaṁ karoti bandhanaṁ.
For a person who is crushed by his thoughts,
and pierced by passion, contemplating
the attractive, craving increases,
this surely makes the bond more firm.
350 . Vitakkupasame ca yo rato
asubhaṁ bhāvayatī sadā sato,
esa kho vyantikāhiti,
esacchecchati Mārabandhanaṁ.
Whoever delights in calming of thoughts,
who cultivates what is unattractive,
will surely abolish all this craving,
he will then cut off the bond of Māra.
In the Final Body
One night because of the arrival of several great elders Elder Rāhula, who was eight years old at the time, gave up his room and slept near the Buddha’s hut; Māra thought to frighten him and took the form of a great elephant and trumpeted near him; the Buddha explained with these verses that Elder Rāhula was an Arahat and was therefore unafraid.
351 . Niṭṭhaṁ gato asantāsī, vītataṇho anaṅgaṇo,
acchindi bhavasallāni, antimoyaṁ samussayo.
Having gone to the end, without
trembling, craving, impurity,
cutting the darts of existence,
this one is his final body.
352 . Vītataṇho anādāno, niruttipadakovido,
akkharānaṁ sannipātaṁ jaññā pubbaparāni ca,
sa ve antimasārīro mahāpañño (mahāpuriso) ti vuccati.
Without craving and attachment,
skilled in words and explanation,
knowing how syllables are arranged,
which come before and which after,
the one in his final body
is said to be of great wisdom.
The Buddha Has No Teacher
After the Buddha had attained Awakening and decided to teach he set out for Bārāṇasī and on the way came across the Ājīvaka Upaka who expressed his admiration of the Buddha’s appearance, and then asked him who his teacher was; this was the Buddha’s reply.
353 . Sabbābhibhū sabbavidūham-asmi,
sabbesu dhammesu anūpalitto,
sabbañjaho taṇhakkhaye vimutto,
sayaṁ abhiññāya, kam-uddiseyyaṁ.
All-Conquering, All-Wise am I,
undefiled regarding all things,
having given up ev’rything,
liberated through craving’s end,
when having deep knowledge myself,
who should I point to as Teacher?
The Dhamma Surpasses All
The gods led by Sakka had four questions which none of them was able to answer, they therefore went to the Buddha at Jetavana with their questions and the Buddha told them it was in order to answer these sorts of questions that he strove to attain Awakening, and he answered them with this verse.
354 . Sabbadānaṁ Dhammadānaṁ jināti,
sabbaṁ rasaṁ Dhammaraso jināti,
sabbaṁ ratiṁ Dhammaratiṁ jināti,
taṇhakkhayo sabbadukkhaṁ jināti.
The gift of the Dhamma surpasses other gifts,
the taste of the Dhamma surpasses other tastes,
the love of the Dhamma surpasses other loves,
craving’s destruction overcomes all suffering.
The Fool Destroys Himself and Others
In a previous life a rich man gave a meal to a Paccekabuddha but almost instantly regretted it; later, out of greed, he also killed his brother’s son; when reborn, because of his gift he was again rich, but because of his evil deed he was childless, lived as a miser and was unable to enjoy his riches; when he died all his wealth went to the king; the Buddha explained the situation with this verse.
355 . Hananti bhogā dummedhaṁ no ve pāragavesino,
bhogataṇhāya dummedho hanti aññe va attanaṁ.
Riches destroy the stupid one
who does not seek the way beyond,
through his craving the stupid one
destroys both others and himself.
Gifts to the Free Have Great Fruit
Aṅkura was a good Brahmin who set up many fire places and worshipped the gods for ten thousand years, yet his position in the heavens was less than Indaka who gave just one spoonful of rice to Elder Anuruddha; the Buddha explained with these verses that one should give with discrimination, as gifts given to those who are free of defilements yield great fruit.
356 . Tiṇadosāni khettāni, rāgadosā ayaṁ pajā,
tasmā hi vītarāgesu dinnaṁ hoti mahapphalaṁ.
Fields are ruined by grassy weeds,
people are ruined by passion,
therefore there is great fruit for that
given to those without passion.
357 . Tiṇadosāni khettāni, dosadosā ayaṁ pajā,
tasmā hi vītadosesu dinnaṁ hoti mahapphalaṁ.
Fields are ruined by grassy weeds,
people are ruined by hatred,
therefore there is great fruit for that
given to those without hatred.
358 . Tiṇadosāni khettāni, mohadosā ayaṁ pajā,
tasmā hi vītamohesu dinnaṁ hoti mahapphalaṁ.
Fields are ruined by grassy weeds,
people are ruined by delusion,
therefore there is great fruit for that
given to those without delusion.
359 . Tiṇadosāni khettāni, icchādosā ayaṁ pajā,
tasmā hi vigaticchesu dinnaṁ hoti mahapphalaṁ.
Fields are ruined by grassy weeds,
people are ruined by desire,
therefore there is great fruit for that
given to those without desire.
Taṇhāvaggo Catuvīsatimo
The Chapter about Craving, the Twenty-Fourth
